Another purple book.Harold Anton KrugerDraft Two Feb 2010Alternating journal entries and chapters of fiction.The first paragraph is a contradiction. Not that it is, I just write that so that I can contradict myself at the outset and not have to bother with the ubiquitous rise of contradictions later.Then I stop writing about paragraphs. I'm sick of paragraphs. I placed this document on the risky desktop and not on the safer D drive. I think it will survive. Ooh, lost a lot of data. I have to go shopping.I've got no motivationI've got no inspirationI'm on medicationTo drift down the river of timeI sit at home and drink red wine.The next paragraph is written a bit later in the day. Dave was not home. I have been writing in the dim notebook and not drinking more wine. My mouth is sore. The prison request show is on 3D Radio. It is a Sunday in July 2009. I was writing about challenges so just for the hell of it I turned the computer on. This can be difficult. I often avoid turning the computer on and would rather write by hand in my notebook. It is the Dim Notebook.The first time I tried to write Another Purple Book it became the Jade Book, which is pretty stupid. This is another stupid book that I will write. These books will never be published. It would be too expensive and I can't do the selling and promotion. Well, I refuse. This book may be nothing but a kind of journal. I don't mind. I have been very unmotivated recently, and it is something to me just to use my new computer and write a stupid journal. Yet I have another journal and if this is another purple book then I use it to give myself the activity of writing to see if I can produce some text.Do I have writer's block and a low mood? Well my mood is not that great and I have no inspiration for other kinds of writing. I don't want to work on it. I have been drinking so much Lambrusco recently. I would drink wine and listen to the radio all day and now perhaps it is time to change and at least start another Purple Book. I feel sort of empty. My mouth is sore from all the wine I have been drinking. Today was a remarkably controlled day. I use the dim notebook to delay the next sip of wine. There is often a cat on my lap.I have been thinking of returning to Karate training on Thursday. Let's see if I can arrange a lift. I don't intend to catch the bus at night again. Maybe I can gradually face more challenges, though I am shy of the very notion. I'm not yet completely useless, and as I can see I am writing another purple book on the computer, which is a small step perhaps but a significant one for me.I don't know that I will keep this journal writing running through Another Purple Book. Any writing will do for this kind of book. The idea is to give me an activity and keep me writing. Secondary to me is the result, the document as a product of some kind. As long as it contains text I won't care. Actually I could write more of the Aqua Book since that is dedicated to drinking and does not record my recent lapse into heavy drinking.The radio plays rap which I don't like, but they are talking slower than the other rap that really annoys me. Now it's Fleetwood Mac, which is good. The text poured out, mixed and harmless, and I thought of various things that I won't write down. That often happens and I censor my own mind even when it provides me with interesting topics to write. The radio stars another rap song and I turn it off. Something else happens which I don't explain and I can hear the little fan in the computer which I think blows on the CPU. It is 7;11 PM and my stomach feels acidic.I threw up last night. Too much wine. Enough to make me sick, anyway, if not enough now to make me tipsy. My body has become tolerant of alcohol. A cat crunches dry food in the kitchen and I think it is Quoll because the last time I looked behind me Princess Kitty and Littlemouse were in the chair of goodness.That sounds like rain. There was a little rain earlier in the day and long before that I went shopping. I don't want any wine now because my stomach is acidic and my mouth is sore. I will write in here. I could even play the portal game but that might be a bit too challenging.The copies of recently published Gyroscope have not arrived yet. They might be on a ship. I look around at the clutter of objects on the computer table. I am in the Red Guru Seat at the moment. I am wearing my computer glasses. I can hear the breathing of cats and the ticking of the clock.My situation in life is not very good. I am mentally Ill and have psychological problems. Most of the time I just do what I want and try to avoid all that I dislike. This is a problem. So is my negative attitude and my failure to do and apply what I know already would be better for my life. I don't respect myself very much and I have low self esteem.I can write about my problems if I want to in Another Purple Book. This could all just be a record of me complaining about myself. Yet at least I made the effort to write this. At least I have some positive plans for the future.In this paragraph I run out of things to mention. It begins to sound more like the Purple Book. I shouldn't have written that letter to Karen. It was a bit mad. Most of my letters to women are a bit mad, as were most of my relationships, which never lasted more than six months and often took a couple of days to complete. Now I am practically impotent with a low libido so it hardly matters. I can think of women but I can't do much about them. I tend to be bitter. Here we have a topic and I thought that I had run out of them for this paragraph.I yawn. Quarter to eight. I will go to bed soon. I'm not a vegetarian any longer. I gave up being ethical to animals. Now I can eat the food after karate, if that custom continues. I yawn again. Goodnight.It is now 12;25 the next day, Monday the 27th of July 2009, and I have put off drinking wine so far by writing. First I wrote in the dim notebook by hand with littlemouse on my lap. Then to prevent myself from drinking wine I turned on the computer and found the Aqua Book.Now it is about 2PM and I have come back from a visit to the psychiatrist. It was all pretty basic. It's not as if we get into my psyche or anything. She suggested that I go for a walk every day. I know that walking is recommended. Putting theory into practice is the hardest thing.After the Taxi took me home I warmed up some soup just because I felt like soup. I also look a lot like soup. This is not funny and I only write it to sarcastically point out that my sense of humor hardly works. I might have some wine today. I don't make a strict rule because then I can end up breaking my strict rule and feeling worse. Yet my mouth is still a bit sore. Do I really feel like wine? Well, I keep thinking about it.My typing speed is slow as I am out of practice. The computer's fan turns on every so often. I hear the ticking of the clock and the Breathing of Littlemouse who is in the chair of goodness behind me. There are two other clocks on the computer. One is a clockface in the upper right of the screen, then there is the digital time displayed in the lower right corner. I type on my large old keyboard that is plugged into the computer. This paragraph is not about anything as I have run out of things to write. At least I think it is cute or fashionable to write that. I may well sit in a chair, drink wine and listen to the radio very soon. If I sit in the chair of goodness Littlemouse will automatically jump to the arm of the chair and then sit on my lap, which is nice. When she miows for attention I usually scritch her.Tuesday. I struggle not to drink yet. I have already written in the Aqua Book and visited Facebook on the internet. Tuesday is supposed to be alcohol free. I must be really addicted. I crave a drink. The time is about 1PM. I don't like this. I think I will pour a glass and then use my Dim Notebook for writing wine breaks to slow things down as I did yesterday.Friday July 31st. I have been on Facebook. I went to Karate training last night and I was amazed that I could remember Kata. It is 10:45 and my Dogi is in the washing machine. I think I will go to the Tavern for lunch, as I did last Friday. Georgie was working. Tim wrote on my Facebook wall that JB also wanted a copy of my book. I commented who is JB? It may be Jodie Brant although I have not spoken to her.I did not drink at all on Thursday. I can hear the washing machine. Princess Kitty is growling at Quoll, who wants to attack her. On Tuesday I made a glass of wine last all day by writing. It's a pity that I don't write anything interesting. The time is almost eleven. I got an e-mail from the marketing manager. He assumes that I am trying to sell many copies of Gyroscope. I didn't read the whole thing, but I archived it.To make this another purple book I should have low mood and writer's block. In any case I have little to write about so it is a similar situation. I can write another paragraph about practically nothing. My plan is to write until the washing machine has finished and then go to the Tavern. This is a fabulous plan, as far as it goes, but I've had enough of writing already.It is Saturday 8th August. I had a dream that I was kissing Samantha. I have just been on facebook and deleted all my e-mail. Nothing is happening and I have nothing to write. My mind is blank. These are perfect conditions for writing purple books.The first thing to do is to begin a paragraph about absolutely nothing. I try to do this but I am distracted by the memory of my dream. This leads to other associations in my mind and I cannot concentrate on producing pure, boring text as is my ostensive ambition.I have no ambitions and no goals. I am an incredibly boring person. I am waiting for Wolis to ring me as it is one of those Saturdays. I plan to make a decaf now.That was many seconds ago and now I am drinking the decaf, which this word processor calls a spelling error. I woke with a good mood yet I have no motivation. Maybe I will sit in a chair and drink red wine. The time is eleven so Wolis should ring roughly now and tell me that he's running late. Once he was on time but he usually tells me that he is running late. I have decided to have a glass of Lambrusco.Hello. I’m now in August and it rains on my washing. The cab driver spoke to me in a language I didn’t recognize. I asked where he was from and he said the Northern Territory. Alan has cancer and is being treated with Chemotherapy. Mum cancelled her trip to England. I wrote on Georgie’s wall, asking if she had got my message. It was not in a bottle, it was on facebook. I removed Ashley Mathews and Elizabeth page from my list of friends. I saw Dr Steele today and she thought I was ill because I feel a bit depressed. We agreed that it was because Jeff died. The last CD guy gave me, copy of a tape of gyrovia, did not function. Mum rang. She still has a cold and will pick me up after shopping.I have been drinking wine today but now I’m between glasses. In one way there is no point in drinking wine. I don’t get tipsy or drunk any longer, I just feel sick when I have too much, or I vomit. This is not the Aqua book as such and I don’t here intend to discuss lambrusco. What I will do is waste your time. My books are cunningly designed to waste time and this holds true for both the reader and the author. Consider my time at the moment. It’s utterly wasted. I have not a single clue what to write next and yet I do insist on producing more text. I agree with you that the text is useless, but actually someone has to read through this to check if it is any good. Since I will publish Gyroscope and Demonlord it remains unknown if the rest of my writing has any value or not. Some of the other fiction is OK but you know most of what I write is completely stupid.In this paragraph I will give a good example of the stupid text I generally produce. Here I not that It continues to rain on my washing, so basically I repeat some information. No, wait, time has passed and for all you know it stopped raining at 3:30 PM. I violently disagree with everything I have ever written. It’s all lies and pretentious nonsense. I don’t even know what the truth is, but rest assured I will never mention it in any of my prolific text. All I do here is waste time, so I never venture into the truth.Likewise everything I have presented as fiction is not fiction. It is the true visions given to me by Rashalika the demonlord. I really need a new drug, the kind I can never get my hands on. This, I stress, is not the truth but my means of producing text. For some reason I want to produce more text today. And this day of all days is a mistake, if you know what I mean. How can you know what I mean? I don’t know what I mean. Generally I tend to mean nothing at all. Now I want to create a document called journal of dreams.I created the journal of dreams on the desktop and wrote a silly introduction. This may as well be the Aqua book as by now I write in here instead of drinking wine and listening to the radio. 3D Radiothon is happening and I have a chance to win one of these great prizes. I don’t want the prizes and I have already subscribed.The rain continues to fall sadly on my washing. It must have been dry for a couple of days but I never remembered to take it off the line before nightfall and the gathering of the dew. I have so much to tell you. Now this is clearly a lie, as I don’t have much to tell you at all. Everyday, in every way, I draw a blank. My mind is often completely blank and I have no ideas. Disturbing memories from the past often trouble me but I don’t want to write about these. Some of the problems I now think I should have solved by being more assertive, violent and angry. That might just have resulted in different problems. I could be haunted by too violent a past. I am haunted by the idea that I am a chicken and a coward. I never used my karate in situations where it was appropriate. I was not making an ethical decision, but a scared gut reaction.Here we have an example of one of the many things that are wrong with me. I think of myself as problematic, although all people have some kind of problem, and many are worse than mine. Here, of course, it’s all about me, and I am very self-centred you know. I can mention my problems.  (Here I edit out some of these ”problems”)Now I had no intention of divulging such information to Another Purple Book, but on the other hand I don’t intend to erase it, either. Perhaps it is not in the spirit of merely wasting your time, but I can’t help that. If you want to read one of my really boring books I recommend the Magenta Book. I certainly have no confessions there, and no ideas or anything worth expressing.Tell you what. In this paragraph I will give an example of the really boring text that I assumed this book would be filled with. I sit here with no ideas and a pure, blank mind. I have nothing to say and nothing to write. I cannot even finish this paragraph without lying again. (Edit) often dream of suicide, yet this would be an escape and I don’t deserve to escape.As you must know by now I spend most of my time drinking Lambrusco and listening to the radio. It is quite rare for me to be writing on the computer like this. My typing speed is very slow as I am so much out of practice. I have considered changing the direction of this book so that it focuses on my confessions. I don’t know if that is a good idea. I suppose I could elaborate a great deal on my various crimes. I could rename this book:CONFESSIONS OF A LUNATICI am not always a lunatic and so my first confession is that I lied in naming this book. For the purposes of convenience, however, I will refer to myself as a lunatic, many of my decisions being completely crazy.Now it is Thursday. I am not writing the confessions of a lunatic. I want to forget about that. I have been investigating a course in Massage. The idea is to gain a certificate and then sell massages as some kind of career move.By now I have enrolled in the massage I course that starts this weekend. There is a bus on Saturday that I can catch, but not one on Sunday. I might order a taxi for Sunday. I have done cooking and cleaning todayn]‘’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’princess kitty comment. I might practice getting up early tomorrow. The bus leaves at 8:40. Princess kitty is purring as she lies between the computer and the external keyboard. It is half past 4. In an hour I will ring Mark and go to karate.For the massage course I need 1 flat sheet, 2 bath towels, 1 hand towel and a bottle of water. I don’t think it will all fit in my bag but I think I can buy it at Target. Maybe I need a new bag as well. It is 10AM. I have several things to do at castle plaza, then I will go to the Tavern. I hope I don’t drink as much as last time. I have been writing in the lambrusco notebook.I was exhausted at training. At home I turned on the television and watched a euthanasia suicide. This man had a medical condition that was causing paralysis and suffering. He went to Switzerland to die and spoke of the ethics of the situation. Some people say it’s playing god to end a life of suffering, but these same right to life people don’t point out that giving organ transplants and helping premature babies survive is also playing god.I always play god in several ways since this is one of my lunatic confessions. I caught a train on Sunday. (edit)I am fairly busy with the massage course. I enrolled in the certificate IV. I have no time to write another purple book. Well, actually I do but I don’t want to.Later on I decided to do the diploma in remedial massage and for that purpose I have enrolled in trigger point. I have bought a Mobile Phone, and with it contacting people. Dani has been discussing issues with me. Today I threw out things. A sound system, record player, amplifier and big speakers. My email has not been working. I rang Wolis on the mobile. It’s a worse connection than the landline. Yesterday he suggested googling gmail. Today he suggested using another browser. Neither make a difference.I have begun the task of reading all the journals in the third shelf of the Cult of Time Bookcase. I just finished the Rat Diary. I read the details of the past, the boring passage of time, the occasional issue or confession, the phases of suicidal thought and so on. Having no purpose and nothing to do was a big problem for me. Now I have massage therapy. I hope nothing goes wrong.I put out the meditation cushion and someone has already smashed the other equipment I put out. But now is so much later than reality. I might ring BirdE.In my reading I am up to the Tedious Journal, about halfway through the shelf. In my life I am up to the Friday Clinic. I went in for nine to learn that it starts at one. I talked to Jayneen at Karate. We both used to train at the Uni 20 years ago. My Dogi is in the washing machine. This may not really be another purple book, in which I do a great deal of useless writing. I don’t really have that much time for it, and when I have time I prefer to write by hand. I am writing the Possible Journal at the moment. I sent an email to John after I found a gmail connection that worked in “history”, which may be a tab for all I know.A gaunt woman has moved into unit 9 where Jeff used to live before he died of cancer. I saw a programme on tv about cancer. I would prefer it if they went into more biological detail, but it was for a general audience. Cancer cells become immortal, like the germ-line cells. They lie dormant waiting for triggers, and if they mutate enough they can leave the kind of tissue they came from and migrate around the body. Most cells are under the hormonal control of the body for their division and timed death, but mutations of the cancer cell’s DNA let it ignore the body and grow independently.I have a sheet of paper which came out of a notebook. It was the last page. In BirdE’s handwriting are the words;			APPENDIX		Nothing is ever nothingBirdE Phoned the other day. He tries to be normal and sane. He now identifies as Stephen, which is his name. Yet he can’t help saying some odd things on the phone. Every time a word is used that has other senses both of us tend to think of the other sense of the word, and use it for the next change of meaning or topic.BirdE phoned today when I was hypomanic after failing Trigger Point I had insomnia again. I rearranged the place and am arranging massages with fellow students for practice and therapy. I will see peter on Thursday and then visit Sandra. I’ve made an appointment with Dr Wong to check out my breast cancer, and one for treatment by Michelle Tsujimoto.I did a huge shopping trip, pushing the trolley home as I needed cat litter. In the shopping centre I made a point of being sociable and using people’s names. I spoke to Lyn in the supermarket promoting a horrible yogurt and Claire on the checkout. Then I talked to Carolyn who I know in the Chemist, who knows Sandra and David. Emailing Sandra I’ve arranged to see her on Thursday after I see Peter. At home I did 3 loads of washing, cleaning, cooking, organizing and so on.17th November 2009I have been even more sociable. I’ve seen Mel and Steve and I’ve been attempting to organize a date with Ali who told me in the Tavern that she’d like to get me drunk and take advantage of me. I have repeated massage II or the second weekend of it. I want to go out with Georgie as well. You’d think she does not want a massage, let alone a date, but perhaps the massage seems more suddenly intimate than a date.Lisa visited Adelaide and had a massage. Guy had a massage. I massaged Mum’s feet and Roberto’s shoulders. Is it the 17th? It’s the Wednesday with the forecast aiming for 41. I don’t have cancer, my body is hormonally reacting to the respirerdone. Neither John nor Sherill have contacted me back about the massage exchange. I could advertise it on the academy notice board.Saturday. My text message really hurt Dani. I’ve been in a bad way. Ali said she was joking. I couldn’t believe Mel and she won’t be my friend. I can’t connect to the internet. I’m not doing any study. I listen to the 3D radio and write in the possible journal. In there I cover these events in more detail. I don’t want to write in here.Cornelius wandered through the rift between the desert on Pangolin and the mental Hospital in my mind that I escaped to only later by default he looked at the squid and said Christ, another purple book. Christ passed the bong to Dali and Peter served wine to Krishna and Dali while Buddha walked over to the wishing well to have a chat to Moses. Anne cried.Paul passed the joint to Ringo and muttered is this really happening. No, said Avelokiteshvara, only your mind is moving. Ali cut me off as a friend in every way and won’t serve me in the Tavern. Our Father, said Picasso, who’s art is in heaven. No way said Jeff, that’s against a commandment. A likeness of any . . . oh drop it said John who took a passage from Marx and accepted a light from Hegel. Ganesh came out of the Sauna with Churchill and strauss. Robert nodded to George and Peter carried the bottle across to Roger and Robyn who were sipping pure mango juice in the shade of a fever tree..My body is not hormonally reacting to respiridone in the production of prolactin. The Endocrinologist was baffled. Rosy looked at Cornelius but not a word was spoken. Maureen sucked her margarita through a thick straw. Princess kitty lay in the laundry sink.Hitler packed another cone for Lenin while O’bama played ping pong with Bach. Aristotle sipped his whiskey and soda as he listened to the conversation between Thales and Derrida. Dani gave Buddha a flower and Wolis played chess with Zilberman, the champion wrestler. Ringo passed the joint to George and said this is not really happening. Ali gave Merleau-ponty a glass of cream sherry. Mel sipped Red wine with Jimi. Moses winked at Dani and mel saw the wink and thought it was aimed at her. Hegel said something that only Zilberman understood and Milo laughed at Thales. Hegel took this personally and whispered something to Aristotle that only Plato would understand, so his friend Jesus sent a text message to Stalin that left out some vital information and Allah lifted his eyebrows when Jehova looked at him. Adam was embarrassed so Anne sent an email to Dali asking if they would send the bong over to the next Table. Stacey was serving at that table and she took the bong across the floor to the wrong cabinet and left a lamp on the right table so that Ruth muttered to Alice.Rashalika gave a gold coin to Georgie, who whispered something to Alice who in turn told Jackie and Andrea. I told Andrea I liked her hair and she told me she liked my glasses. I fry the raw chicken quickly to white then simmer it in water herbs and soy sauce slowly while the dry bean mix boils. I have no idea.Duty of care means you are not trusted. You are searched, blood tested, and all your possessions are taken away, even your shoe laces. In the ward they also have duty of care. You are searched again, put in a cold room with nothing but a bed and watched by a security guard. There is no counseling in your suicidal condition. There is nothing at all but waiting until crisis has passed. There is no therapy. In the next ward there is more care, but so little to do to pass the time, locked up with people tense as caged animals. They smoke a lot or try to. I’m strange for the hospital, but there was a good doctor. Your Father’s suicide and Dani, these are your two main issues. Well Dani was suicidal, and probably due to me. Even good friends don’t know my issues. I’m so reserved and shy.Clare poured a beer for Handle and white wine for Vivaldi. BirdE wanted to join in the conversation but he was still parachuting zombies into France.I called it a socioemontional crisis on facebook. Davina wrote happy birthday on my wall. I sent a text message to Eyvonne. Zilberman moved his knight. Wolis frowned.As the writing loader clanked and jangled over shaky ground I wrote a clause delta as it was eleven and I pretty much wanted to drink wine. I think I did. Maybe I didn’t really want to or I didn’t want to think about it. Maybe I wrote an email to Eyvonne as part of my clause delta activity. I am more motivated to write to her as I remember how she kissed my lips when she said goodbye last time we met. Will she want to kiss me again? Would she want to kiss me if she knew my issues?  There’s other issues. She’s married and I don’t think I should damage that relationship. I’m friendly with all the family.Now I have some kind of craving for wine, but it’s vague and could be something else. What else could it be. Maybe it’s just need itself. I think of myself as needy, and judge that I should not be, and then judge that judgement is a bad move. I’m scared of being a chicken, yet I think of myself as a chicken, sacrificed daily for the consumption of the needy and hungry. I put chicken in the bean dish. Well it was a pan. I shared this food with Roberto, as well as the cask of lambrusco, but I didn’t leave it there when I left and Guy was there. Roberto still has a plate of mine that I put the pudding on. I am reminded of the cask, of which there are now two, but one is almost finished. I should not focus on it.I think of various other things and do other things and make a peppermint tea that I want to drink in the garden. This I have now done and it is twenty to one in my time while little text time has passed. I hope time does pass, I’d hate it to fail. I think of a shower and visiting the bank.Today is the first of January 2010, and what I plan to do for new year’s day is to waste your time. I am deliberately planning to reach clause three and then continue the production of text without any sensible topic. I will tell you that I have absolutely no idea what to write, as I often do in tragic clause three situations, and yet I will bore you with the production of stupid text. This is my mission. I am committed, or I should be.This paragraph is my first attempt at clause three for twenty ten. Suddenly, for no reason at all, I have run out of sensible and silly topics to write. I sit in the red guru seat typing on my keyboard. I can see an elephant and a baby elephant. I have absolutely nothing to write about and I don’t know why I ever wanted to start another purple book in the first place. But clause three is strange, for one thing, and for a completely different thing I should not have mentioned the elephant. It is on a calendar that Mum gave me for Christmas.My next paragraph has another attempt at clause three. I have writer’s block. I am producing crap rather than literature. The time is twelve. I have no ideas. I sit at the computer waiting for inspiration to come to me but it does not. I pause often, not writing, gazing blankly at the screen. This is a bit more like it, but actually it is a fake clause three, not a real one, and I insist on genuine articles of text.The fourth paragraph of the day wonders if I will drink wine. It is not a genuine clause three and it does not intend to be, but it is not interesting and inspired writing either. I drank wine yesterday and threw up later, when I had brushed my teeth. I find it quite easy to vomit. I look at the elephant from time to time, and realize that I could write a lot of Jenny information in here if I wanted to. She talked to me last night. But I don’t want to write such information. I drank wine and she drank beer and told me about her two husbands and so on.The fifth paragraph is really stupid as it tries to recall other paragraphs from the past that groped blindly for a topic and contradicted themselves. It has no theory, but it has the practice of writing. It remembers the elephant but does not know what to do with the memory of the elephant. In here I really abuse the time of your life, as well as fully wasting my time in the production of it. The text has no meaning but text is required. An entity of the future just needs text and I have anticipated that need. Quantity is important while quality is no longer mentioned.Anyway, this is an example of the kind of material I produced on new year’s day when I was once long ago hard at work on the production of text itself. I don’t do that any longer. I have changed completely. Look at those four folders. Look at the elephants. Some of them were too erratic. And perhaps I thought it would be nice for the new year to do some writing, so I chose the topic of having no topic, the elusive clause three and I wrote, as such. But such is life and such is death and I have some DVDs which cannot be watched. Meanwhile the red guru seat grows increasingly uncomfortable and I want to return to my writing. You know, my hand-written journals. It would take some kind of commitment to write frequently on my computer again, in the way that I used to.I wonder if I will drink wine today. It is twelve thirty and I may drink wine. Yet I like the idea of drinking nothing and I like the idea of drinking less than yesterday, when I threw up. Wine is a problem. It can put me to sleep and wake me up. It can make me sick but it cannot make me drunk. Curiously endocrine tests reveal that I have a healthy liver. I don’t understand why. I have been abusing substances for years.Writing is also a bad addiction, although I am not addicted to computer writing, only to my journals that I scribble into by hand with a physical pen. I write with mistakes. I’m bad at spelling for a start. And think of the elephants. I think of another purple book. The book could only contain text and go in search of the elephants and clause three.Well, why did I return to this book? Nothing is happening in here. I want to do handwriting. Well I did the email and I looked on facebook. Then I turned off the broadband connection. It was ten past one and I wanted to get off the computer, so I returned here to another purple book and decided to produce more useless and boring text. Perhaps I did not want to get off the computer. Perhaps I did not want a drink of wine. Perhaps the overcast frog of day was a blue cat. I mean I can only guess from here. I have no self knowledge. Wang seems a bit of a make life simple person. She likes cooking and shopping and classical music. I could ask her out but I have postponed this for now.Writing is a bad addiction as it focuses me on myself and I am already too self indulgent. This is my current opinion. I used to think my writing was good or harmless. No such luck. But I am addicted. I want to try avoiding wine today. This is the theory I have at 1:26. It may not last. I can change in a drastic way. For example I could give up on my plan and start to drink wine. For now I have a decaf and Quoll is on the default chair. I see the elephant from behind. I see the baby elephant. The elephants are in a savanna looking for clause three. I can sympathize with these elephants as I often want to find clause three myself. I no longer know why. It has become part of the textual culture. The more culture that exists the harder it is to actually reach clause three. Yet culture can be humdrum and boring. It sounds interesting but it may not be very interesting at all. This writing, for example, is not interesting. I can tell as I am the author and I am bored out of my brain.What I could do is postpone wine for several hours to come and then share my cask with Roberto. This would be less self indulgent and I think I should challenge my self indulgence.CHAPTER FOUR   A GIANT SQUIRREL ATTACKSToday is the second of January and I don’t feel like writing on the computer. I am not going to tell you anything that happened. I am not going to mention dreams of memories. By the way a giant squirrel does not attack in this chapter.  I have decided to do some writing only in terms of producing text. I am not going to express anything. I plan for some really boring writing.For the new year I want to give up wine. This is not entirely true since I am planning to drink soon for most of the day. I am not unified in my resolutions or my thinking. Jenny does not drink tea or coffee. She never has. Anyway my plan is to phase out wine. I think that I drink too much. Roberto was not in on new years day so I did not share a cask with him. I controlled and delayed my drinking so that I only had three glasses for the day. This should go in the Aqua Book. This is not the Aqua Book. Suddenly the Giant squirrel attacks. I look at the elephant. Quoll lies on the default chair. She likes that chair. Jenny will run out of pain medication for her chronic back. She was in a car accident. I think she wants me to feel sorry for her, but I can be supportive as I want to challenge my selfishness and do things for other people. That is the general theory. I will probably always be selfish but I can work on the problem in some kind of ongoing and general way.I try to block the giant squirrel and counter-attack, but it is too big for me and crushes me to death. I come back to life and the giant squirrel attacks. I try to run away. Is the squirrel too fast for me? The squirrel lunges and I counter with a front kick. But my kick is not effective. I don’t really want to hurt the squirrel you see. The elephant is walking away.The paragraph I write now is really boring. My struggle is not with a giant squirrel. I have eaten some lunch. I want to give up wine as I drink some wine. I want to give up writing and I am addicted to writing. I am addicted to low quality journal writing. I have to judge the quality of my writing as I am self-centred. Well, I don’t have to but this is what I do. Harsh judgement is a mistake, I judge. Small bits of plastic break off. I’m side on to the machine and I can feel it’s heat and steam. The cherry tomato imploded. What a boring paragraph.The next paragraph is far worse. I have no ideas at all and nothing to express. I could study from the four folders but I don’t do that. Reality was gradually replaced with a spoon. The drama unfolded. There were small devises on the computer table and a cat on the chair. Was I going to drink wine? Was I going to struggle with wine? The time is ten past one and yesterday I started drinking at three. I woke late. It was eleven thirty when I got up. Quoll kneaded me with her claws.One fifteen. I put on my shoes and knocked on Jenny’s door. I could hear the television and her voice but she didn’t answer the door. Well, that’s my good deed for today, and so I return to my writing because I want to drink wine so I suppose this should really be the Aqua Book. Either this or that book are really my current journal. Dali passes the bong to Buddha. Well, I did smoke a cone at Dave’s place on Sunday and he did write me an email in reply to my email which I have not yet replied to. If I reply too soon it obliges him to write back when he may not want to. Quoll stands on the elephant calendar and grooms her beastly fur.My shoes are still on and I want to drink wine so I began another paragraph. I should really be writing this in the Aqua Book.Sunday 3rd JanuaryI wrote in the Aqua Book about my new goals for drinking. I have at least six goals, I realized, as I wrote in the plausible journal. I was listing my current goals. Only one was about alcohol control. Others were about improving my social skills, studying more and so on. Being more optimistic. I forget the list. Did I even include practicing non-selfish actions? Again today I knocked on Jenny’s door. This time I had a container of warm soup with me. I tapped on her window and called her name but there was no answer and the TV was on in the bedroom. I also sent Alan a text message to say I was thinking of him.My goals are all very ambitious. One involves the transformation of my persona, you could say as I want to be socially capable and outgoing rather than shy.There’s a text message from Mum. Alan was overwhelmed by my simple message and cried. This was apparently positive. Mum is impressed by my thoughtfulness. This seems strange to me, like I am just experimenting with being more thoughtful, just practicing so to speak, since Aristotle says you become virtuous by practicing virtue. People respond as if I have reached the goal already and am actually virtuous now, when I’m really a bastard who’s pretending to be virtuous as part of a very long term plan. I don’t expect immediate good results.Buddha passes the bong back to Dali.The ambitious goals are not fixed to any particular timeframe, so they could take decades for all I know. It has taken years of the minimal life devoid of goals and avoiding of challenges to get to a place where I now want to accept some challenge. Challenges often seem harder than they are. Yet I’m cautious, since I can often give myself high expectations and then feel bad when I don’t live up to any of them. It’s not like me to have a moderate goal. I’m sure I could be working on my social skills for the rest of my life. Or I may just look back at this time, and having slipped back into the minimal life see it as a high point, the time when I really had some goals. I can lapse completely. Lets hope not.Today is a Friday and I have nothing that I want to write in here, so I thought I would add a paragraph or two to another Purple book. I am writing in my plausible notebook, I’ve written an email to Dave and I’ve been on facebook. Wang wrote something interesting about india and thinking of nothing in Varanassi. I am wearing my computer glasses. The time is twelve twenty five.The next paragraph is empty, yet packed with text. This is where I really waste our time. There’s a twinge in my right calf. Quoll lies on the computer table. I drank orange mango and ate a bowl of rice and mixture. I think of asking Wang out for dinner on Gouger street. She wants to visit the Taj Mahal with Mr Right. It would be nice if I could be Mr Right for somebody. For some reason I think that time must be far in the future when my social skills have improved. Yet it could be now.Then again the whole concept of a partner could be the wrong path for me. I’m used to being single. Is a relationship also a viable goal? It seems so problematic. Maybe I should not consider it. I don’t know. Yet I seem to naturally aspire to it, to dream about it and think about it.I’ve had no wine for several days and it seems easy enough at this stage. Will I last till Easter? Easter depends on the phase of the Moon. The time is six past one.PART TWELVEOh, not another purple book! This is disgusting. It’s a Sunday the tenth of January. I nearly joined an internet dating site but then I did not. My mood is good. I think Wang is in India now. Dave sent an email to say he would be seeing his daughter today. I am drinking green tea. I woke early and did some study of trigger point. Another hot day.The ambience is calm, excited and nocturnal. The day is bright. Here I am in the red guru seat thinking of a book like this one in which all the characters have diseases. Daisy, for example, has Fibromyalgia. She is in pain and tired all the time. I can use pathology study to advantage. Well, not really. Daisy is not my character with streaky grey-blond hair. She does not feature in a creative writing attempt. She is not thirty nine with bright blue eyes. She does not encourage me to drink wine?How flexible and how rigid should I be? Life is pretty good as it is. Perhaps a woman on the scene would just complicate things and make my life worse. Then, if I do pursue a relationship, how flexible should I be? If she is a drinker I will be encouraged to drink. If she is a non-drinker I may not live up to my non-drinking mode and would prefer a drinker. Many other details could be taken the same way. Vegetarian or not? Television or not. In a way I don’t know too exactly where I stand on thi------Quoll comments------------------s kind of thing, and this is just the example. The real issues will be around other matters, I bet.Trying to correct for mistakes can be a huge mistake, and I’m in such a good phase now. Am I going manic? Or at least hypomanic? The doctor slid a hypomanic needle into daisy’s vein and smiled horribly. The doctor in the story tends to be an evil character. Policy; any doctor who does not commit a crime by chapter five will be replaced by a more sinister doctor who does.Krishna nods to Jesus and bets another elephant on the immaculate quest. He places Daisy on the elephant and takes away her pain for half an hour. I cleaned the stove top and the microwave oven. This is mandatory for any bachelor bower bird. The time flows past quickly. Maybe I will try the dating sites.Well, now I’m back here. I spent a long time responding to a questionaire for a site called e-harmony, all about personality traits and so on, which was hard since I think I’ve been changing recently, when the server timed out loading the next page.Now I have done some cooking and re-organizing activities. The day is hot and I like it. See if I can get on that site now. Well the internet itself can’t be accessed now. This means I try another day or a different path opens for me or something optimistic like that.  My goal to be optimistic seems to have benefits already. I feel calm, energized and content. I feel I can implement strategies and tools that I have learned in the past and let crystallize in my noodle for a rainy day.A pot is boiling on the stove. First I fried up red onion, capsicum and carrot. I added lentils, and then shortly after I added water. I let it boil while I did things with the outside cupboard that wants to be a shed. Then I added rice. It all boiled for a while and now I have turned off the stove. It is an electric stove so it cools down slowly and the mixture is still boiling as I write. The time is half past two. That’s enough purple book for one day.My good mood didn’t last. It’s hard to be optimistic. I mostly sit and write in my notebook. I found some realistic negatives yesterday and I feel stumped. Today I can’t yet find google on the internet. I think I’m in alcohol withdrawal, which lowers my mood. I tried the internet again and I can’t get it to work.It worked later. I sent an email to dave. I did some work on the e-harmony site. I still wait for a response from Katie.Swordwork and conversation with Dave on Monday. I smoked another cone. There was one game superimposed on another game. I feel like playing the guitar.CHAPTER ThirteenKaren galloped like crazy towards the portal as the monster behind her was closing in. With an unearthly shriek she leapt Grommet into the portal and heard the bestial Jaws snap behind her.Grommet thudded down onto solid Jalantra and raced across a field of blue grass. She spotted a slivery crow flying beside her.CHAPTER Fourteen“Well, Karen,” Purred Myron, “You can’t escape now.”  With a lightning motion Karen flicked out her Zap gun and killed Myron. She kicked his corpse aside and dived for the door.Karen looked up from her book. “Number three?” Harold nodded and Milton said “No,” at the same time. Karen glanced at Nami. Dr Bem poured coffee as Wamillia paddled the boat, frowning into the sunset.“I thought the readers wanted something with a faster pace,” said Harold.“They do,” said the voice of Myron in Milton’s head.CHAPTER FifteenKaren raced down the passage way. Her riding boots made the crystal floor echo. She was breathing fast. It was exciting.  She could visualize herself talking to her spirit guide, Guru the silvery crow. “To teleport now,” said the message in her head, “focus on my image.” Karen focussed on the flying crow and ran into the Library in her temple on Dalurth.“Thanks Guru. Now which book is it, number three?”“Yes, the third book of Karen,” said the priest bowing low and wringing his hands together. An octopus tentacle reached wetly from a suddenly opening portal towards Karen’s bum as she dived for the third book. “Which cha-!?” she screamed.Chapter Seventeen“Missed one,” said Dr Bem as he screwed the cap back onto the thermos bottle. “He’s getting more erratic and may be Ill. Note the manic pace of the writing, Karen.”“Is it a form three, then, Marcus?”“I didn’t miss one, said Harold,” said Milton, improvising wildly. That won’t work said the voice of Myron in his head. She can’t just kill me, you know. The voice had an unreal silken tone.“I didn’t miss a chapter,” said Harold in an unsteady voice, “It goes into another book because I have to alternate for the magic to work.”Chapter twenty one“Later,” said Karen with conviction. She searched for the third book. “No way am I staying in this crazy world,” she muttered, “Womandroid Goddess or not.” Karen felt a slick layer of perspiration between her skin and the tight black leather costume that she wore. “God I’d love a shower right now.”Chapter Twenty Two“All magic aside,” mentioned Harold, “I heard you were Gay.”“I am,” replied Karen, “But I wanted to appear as more mainstream to you.” She sipped her very weak café latte. “Well I never suspected. That’s why my desire and obsession bothered you,”“Partly,” Karen agreed, glancing around the coffee shop. Beyond the window was the broad blue ocean.“I just wanted to talk to you.”“This is an unhealthy obsession. You must let go.”“Don’t you know I want to? One of me wants to. I feel so ambivalent. You know on one level it really amuses me to have you suddenly reappear in my writing.”“Well, this should be our final meeting. The ethics of my profession and all of that.” Karen gazed into her coffee.“In some ways,” said Harold slowly, “This is better. In here you listen to me. You are interested. Our past relationship was less ideal.”“Is this about ideals?”“Lets say I want to use you as a resource, like a library.”“Well that sounds good.”“You would approve of me now. I work at controlling addictions. I only occasionally smoke marijuana these days. Today I had my first drink of wine for a month.”“Well, when I knew you alcohol was less of an issue, but I was keen for you to give up marijuana.”“You don’t need to restate the obvious here, Karen. I don’t mind if you are gay, you were my best key worker.”“Was I really?”“I think so. Anyway I have goals. You approve of the positive steps I take. To study massage, to change my thinking in an optimistic direction. You know I couldn’t do that in depression, when our meeting was real.”“Isn’t there anything real about this conversation?”“There could be. It depends who you ask.”“I’m asking Rashalika.”“Yes this is real.” Harold gazed at the ocean. “You know I used to come here with Eva, before I went mad.”“I doubt you were ever fully mad. Ill, perhaps.”“You have no idea.”“I have some idea. I remember your conceptual machines.”“I’d almost forgotten them. And you advised me to have less imagination. Well I have less now, not that it was a decision. But that was all part of my lifestyle. The way I coped.”“I know, and it was good for me to learn the difference you presented. I would see it as an escapist fantasy. Now tell me about your current philosophy.”“I’m glad you asked, Karen.”“Actually I feel this is badly scripted for me. I’m not properly expressed or presented.”“Well I just wanted to talk to you. I had all these different thoughts, things I wanted to say, conversations I wanted to have with you. I’m not into good scripting. You began to malfunction so I just pressed your button.”“It is rather chaotic, but that does not matter. The thing to do is let go of me. Stop writing about me. Have me walk away from this coffee shop and out of your imagination.”“That sounds so healthy, Karen. You know my great ambivalence. I wish you could remain as my resource, as my personal library. I wish I could just let you go.”“What can we work out?”“Well, the thing is I didn’t exactly open a new document called the third book of Karen. I can keep this encapsulated within Another Purple Book, and return to my journal as you walk away from the coffee shop and I gaze at your retreating bum with great admiration. I think you have the most beautiful bum I’ve ever seen.”“And then you return to journal format?” Karen sipped her latte.“Exactly. I love journal writing.” Harold finished his decaf flat white.“But Harold,” Purred Karen, Rolling over in bed, “this fantasy has only just begun.”“You must be the imaginary Karen. I have no time for fun and games now. My libido is low. Put some clothes on and return to the coffee shop.”“What about my body? My beautiful bum, look…”Chapter Thirteen and a half.Karen sang in the shower as the hot water gushed over her gorgeous body. A building exploded in the distance.“You can’t just kill me,” said the voice of Myron in her head, “Only another Demonlord kills me.”“I have the power,” sang Karen, “Schizophrenia strikes in the shower!”Chapter Fifty One“And anyway,” said Harold thoughtfully as he replaced the cup on the saucer, “a saucer is for sauce. If you do just leave this coffee shop and walk out onto the beach, well, you can just as easily reappear in my writing in the future. What I need is a way of giving up the Karen obsession.”“I totally agree. CBT might help.”“It might. But different addictions need different kinds of strategy. The wine strategy is not just like the tobacco strategy. I’m addicted to writing and addicted to the memory of you.”“But it’s such a transformed image,” said Karen, “transformed by your mind. It has so little to do with the real Karen any more.”“Most compelling fantasies are based on some reality. But listen, if this is so much a part of my own thinking maybe it is hardly about you and so I cling to a fabrication. How important is it to give up the fabrication?”“This is just your Illness talking,” said Karen, “now let’s walk on the beach and hold hands.”“But the real Karen would never say that.”“I know, but here it is in my script.” Karen frowned. Her latte was finished. She wanted to get up and leave the coffee shop. Various desires struggled within her. She was real and unreal. She was an android and a woman.“I beg you to tell me your current philosophy!” shouted Karen as she ran from the coffee shop.“See you later,” said Harold.CHAPTER TWELVE	My current philosophy is rather plastic. It changes from day to day. The general idea is that I live for the challenge of life. I socialize more, I have goals and sub goals. I attempt to be more optimistic. I attempt a Diploma of massage therapy. To succeed is not the main thing, I just prefer to succeed. Attempting and challenging are the main themes.Some days I don’t want to attempt or challenge anything. I retreat to my minimal life activities. I drink wine again, I write in my notebook rather than study. Yet I know that my expectations can be too high and I have come from a past of having very little in the way of challenge and being overcome with the fear of life, fully in the mode of giving up.I’m recovering from that phase, and I can’t expect myself to change so suddenly in so many ways.Ontology is a variable. Reality is a relative quality, yet things generally go better if we treat this universe as if mostly real. My philosophy is non academic. It is about learning and growing on a personal level, although I don’t think there is or should be continual growth or learning. Actually this is just the more recent aspect of my thinking, and I could say this sort of idea is also variable, depending on where you are at and this can change.I checked email, facebook and eharmony. I feel like drinking wine, although I’m now on a decaf.CHAPTER THIRTEEN“Who are you?” asked Harold and sipped his decaf.“I’m Caroline. I warned you not to touch the metric bananas.”“Well I don’t remember a thing about you.”“I’m your own idea, to stop you thinking of another woman.”“Can it be so simple?” asked Harold as he twiddled his thumbs.“Oh it’s not simple. This is quite a complex substitution process.”“It may not be a good idea to start a relationship with an imaginary woman.”“I’m quite keen to walk out at any time.”“That’s more like it.”“Do you have trouble with real women?”“Yes. I usually make mistakes in communication. I think I’m too selfish.”“Well, knowledge of the problem is a start.”“But the communication mistakes, well I keep repeating them with different people. I tend to send a text message that is a mistake and only realize later,” said Harold, sipping Lambrusco at seven in the morning.CHAPTER FOURTEENSuddenly a portal opened and Caroline was sucked through into a weird vortex where thousands of portals opened and closed continuously. The sun shone and the wind blew. Another portal took her to the palace of Rashalika.“Someone killed Myron without my permission,” said Rashalika. At his side was a beautiful twelve year old girl.“You’ve got the wrong suspect, buster,” said Caroline, drawing her zap-gun in a smooth, practiced motion. The girl lifted her hand and the zap gun popped out of existence.“Oh,” said Caroline with a frown.“You can’t really kill a Demonlord anyway,” said Rashalika conversationally. His skin was blue.“I can try,” responded Caroline pluckily.“Killing can be evil,” said the girl. She was dressed in a green sari.“I’m not evil,” said Caroline. Her eyes were deep brown, her hair was mousey blond.“You are not even real,” said the girl. Her name was Tamaria.CHAPTER FIFTEENCaroline dived through the portal and into the speedboat that was powering towards the shore.  The water was full of dinosaurs. Swampy smells assaulted Caroline’s nose.“Hang on!” yelled Milton. The boat rocketed over the water.“I’m watching,” said the voice of Tamaria in her head.“So am I,” said the voice of Rashalika.Caroline dived into another portal as the speedboat exploded.CHAPTER SIXTEENCaroline lay still on the hot green sand of the planet Pangolin. She listened to the sobbing sound of the wind. For a while she did not move. The echo of the explosion still reverberated in her head. She wondered who was operating the portals.“I’ve been operating the portals,” said a new voice in her head.“Who are you?”“The Demonlord Jin Ri”“Don’t listen to Jin Ri,” said Tamaria.CHAPTER SEVENTEEN“What seems to be the problem?” asked Doctor Bem.“Voices,” said Caroline, “I hear voices when no one is there.”“What’s your appetite like?”“I’m always hungry but I’m on a diet.”“What’s your sleep like?”“I wake up too early most nights, at about three.”“Well I’m going to diagnose you with schizophrenia and prescribe these horrible sodium valproate tablets.”“Will they stop the voices?”“No. There’s no cure for your illness. You just have to manage it, and manage the side effects of medication too.”“It seems hopeless.”“It is. The book of Job is about karma you know, getting what you give.”“But God said Job was blameless.”“I’m not listening, I’m writing notes,” said Doctor Bem. CHAPTER EIGHTEEN“I didn’t know it was loaded,” said Caroline.CHAPTER NINETEENDali passed the bong to Buddha.“I don’t smoke, Savador,” said Buddha. Hegel nodded to Zilberman and Merleau-Ponty gave Tamaria an ice cream. She dropped it on the ground.“So many characters,” commented Caroline as she scanned the garden.“That’s what I noticed about the Chinese language,” said Harold.“The difference between difference and sameness is time,” said Rashalika.“Don’t talk nonsense, Rashalika,” said Tamaria.“It may not be nonsense,” said Hegel.“Who’s got the bong?” asked Harold, sipping red wine.“I passed it to Buddha,” explained Dali as he offered Caroline a plate of cheese.“No thanks, Buster, I’m on a diet,” said Caroline, wondering when Jin Ri would open the next portal.CHAPTER TWENTYCaroline roared away in a large white car. The hot road lay rippled across the dunes like a glossy ribbon. A vulture cruised overhead. She wondered if this was the way to the library. The library was very, very important. She knew there was a book in the library that she had to find. It was the Third Book of Caroline.“It could be a different book,” said Harold from the passenger seat.“Don’t distract me when I’m driving,” said Caroline testily. She didn’t like Harold. She didn’t like the scripted lines or the way they had to have conversations.“I know I don’t have good social skills now, but I’m practicing on you,” said Harold.“People with social skills never say things like that for a start,” replied Caroline as she steered around a curve.“Guess why this car is white,” said Harold.“I refuse to play guessing games with you!” exclaimed Caroline.“I know you don’t like me,” said Harold.“Of course I like you,” said Caroline.CHAPTER TWENTY ONE“We’ve got a tail,” said Harold, “speed up.”Caroline stomped on the pedal and the car jerked forward.“Who is it?”“People in another car,” replied Harold unhelpfully.A shot rang out.“I bet it’s Rashalika and Tamaria,” said Caroline, “You probably said the wrong thing to them at the party.”“Probably,” said Harold.CHAPTER TWENTY TWORashalika sent a telepathic message to the people of Dalurth welcoming them to the new age of Caroline. He took his lover away in a balloon and they copulated in the basket. She had mousey hair.CHAPTER TWENTY THREE“This is obscene,” said Caroline, putting the book down.“As far as the eye can see,” said Harold as he squinted at the horizon. Hot wind blew across the stone roof of the fort. They sat at a round glass table. Caroline sipped her latte. “Which planet is this? “ she asked in a tired voice.“Pangolin. We can open a portal to Capanecta,” Harold drank a little decaf.“You mean we’ve been in fantasy all this time? Is the world of imagination still accessible?”“It can be. Sometimes it just returns.”CHAPTER TWENTY FOURCaroline dived for the portal and landed on the Battlefield of Hades. Brandishing her zap gun she rushed towards the readout. Explosions echoed around her as she ran. “For Dalurth!” she screamed, gunning down a monster.CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE“I LOVE YOUR MOUSEY HAIR!” sang Rashalika, as his balloon drifted amid the clouds of Dalurth. He brushed Caroline’s hair. The brush was blue.“Guess what?” asked the voice in her head.CHAPTER TWENTY SIXToday is cooler but still muggy inside. I have been writing fiction in Another Purple Book.  This is not The First Book of Caroline. She read it in the library. I’m nearly about to buy a cask. At least I think so. Yesterday was a long hot weed quest with Dave and Ph```	`	`	`		`		`````														`	`	`	`	`		il. Now I have magic smoke.CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN“But that means you do smoke,” said Caroline after exhaling the pungent bong smoke.“Only at Christmas. That’s the strange thing about being a demonlord. There is always some relation to the demon.”“How often is Christmas on your planet?”“I don’t always smoke at Christmas, which falls randomly several times in one of your Earthling years. ““How many times a year?”“Twelve.”“That means you could smoke once a month.”“In our Legends on Twilight Seven Mithras dies to save us on a full moon.” Rashalika gazed out at the panorama of clouds.“And is it a full moon tonight on Twilight Seven?”ANOTHER PURPLE JOURNALThis is new year’s day on my planet Gueldorf. I celebrated by smoking two cones at five in the morning and going back to bed. I thought of many things. I was visited by cats. I got up as I scritched Littlemouse, had a shower with the white soap and orange shampoo, dried myself with a new blue towel and decided that If I had a baby I would bring it up in a tradition where the inside of the house was the planet Geuldorf and the main difference was that the cats were called dogs and referred to as nice doggy, with the dog names Fido, muffin and Rex.The second barriage-graph is far worse. Here we explain that the writing is a means of control. The cask was shut away in the cupboard. The remaining buds were collected from the pussycat shaped container on the magic cabinet and placed in a little bag, sealed and hidden. I could sell it to BirdE. In a way I only bought the bag by chance, since Jarad did not respond to a computer chat message. Dave has a date on Saturday. That would be the Thirteenth of February.Today is Friday. The idea is that it’s a practical joke to place one’s child into a different reality. The front and back doors are hyperspacial portals. Everything within the house is considered to be on the planet Gueldorf where dog is cat and vice versa.I answered the phone saying “Department of Green.” I thought it was BirdE ringing back. It was a charity. I gave them $30, which is what the bag cost. She asked for Harold Kruger, which is the name I use for myself these days. I used to have a different name. The time is ten fourteen. I wait for about twelve when I will prepare for the clinic today. In clinic I practice to be a good massage therapist. So far I can be, but it can depend on the client and there are a few things I have to watch out for. This is revealed by the feedback sheets. Obviously I’m not supposed to massage with drugs and alcohol in my system. In time it may be revealed that I’m not supposed to massage at all. I often have women with attractive bodies, and I may enjoy massage too much. That’s the sort of thing that bothers me now. It’s hard to be in Cliff’s perspective of “just another body.”CHAPTER THIRTY“Thirty is so old and so young,” said Harold, guiding his alpaca across the high desert.“I know what you mean,” said Caroline.“Well you are not supposed to be sure what I mean. I wrote some chapters when the computer was in a very strange mode or alternate reality. It had not shut down properly. I could not open this document with a double click. It was like using a much older computer. Now those missing chapters are lost. I originally had you riding an alpaca beside me, but now you could be just a voice in my head.”“That would be disappointing, I suppose your childhood felt like a practical joke.”“It often seemed to be a joke at my expense, but I was probably wrong. I’m wrong about most things. I thought you were thirty years old.”“No, that’s just the number of the beast.”CHAPTER THIRTY ONECaroline zapped another demon and arrived at the readout. Panting hard she knocked on the airlock with the butt of her zap gun. Presently the door opened. Jin Ri embraced her and closed the door hurriedly.“You don’t look like a demonlord,” said Caroline when her breathing had slowed down.“Oh it’s just a technicality, Caroline. All of that is behind me. I’m just an old man.”“You look about thirty.”“Well, I’m ninety two.”“That’s a different kind of beast altogether.”The inner airlock door slid open and all the office staff yelled “Surprise!” ANOTHER PURPLE JOURNALThis is not another purple journal. That would be the name of a future document that I intend to write. In here I just use up the time without doing any study to avoid wine and marijuana. I also try to avoid writing the first book of Caroline, as such. That’s why this is just another purple book. There are several reasons, you see, and book naming is a skill that I have not yet mastered. Notice that my kind of fiction no longer has much of a plot. I thought fiction writing was a thing of the past, and that I would never be inspired to write fiction again. The fiction is adapted to this role and can exist as just a little chapter or so amid the journal content. It’s all just text to the computer. Smoking the drug placed me into a different time, a time of writing creativity. A time of the mystical demonlords. They inspire my writing and I no longer worship them. I thought they only helped me to create a false self image. I abandoned the quest, yet perhaps I cannot.6.52 PM. This is called clause theta delta. This means I write to postpone both cannabis and alcohol. I am back at home after clinic and I want to smoke especially. It seems quite logical. Friday night, one of the best day nights there are. Work is over for the day, and it seems the ideal time to indulge in some kind of drug. I planned this clause theta delta earlier in the day. I have no hope that I will keep writing all night and simply avoid my drugs, which would be an ostensible ambition for Mr Control. All I do here is delay the moment, since this form of control is possible for me.The writing may well suffer in quality. I may well feel more creative after the magic smoke. This is the challenge of my writing control method. It is far easier to control the substances when they are not in the house. Buying the bag may have been a great mistake. I may want to buy another bag when it runs out. I could sell what I now have to BirdE, but he didn’t respond to my message and I probably should not have left a message about drugs on his answering machine.I met a woman in the lift. She works on the third floor, and I began talking to her because she stopped the doors closing, then we walked to where her car was parked on south terrace. She had been to Japan for a month. I told her about my mental illness. Is this the best way to begin conversations? Because it was a non-planned event I felt ok about talking to her. My clinic feedback sheets repot that I was still too nervous and quiet according to one client. Yet my massages have been rated as very good.By quarter past seven I’m thinking of ending this clause. I never intended to postpone for long. Yet I am writing now. Could I come up with any fiction? The writing in this book develops a certain style. I like the little chapters.CHAPTER THIRTY SEVEN“Caroline, I’m so bored. Nothing has happened for a long time,” said Harold as his alpaca plodded over the rough desert terrain. The bluish sun was small, as small as a jalapenos. The hot desert wind blew over his body in gusts. He was thirsty. Where was the mango juice salesman when you needed him?“CAROLINE?’ There was no answer. He was on Pangolin..He called on his Demonlord and soon he had teleported to Earth where he was the author of the text.AP JOURNALThen he felt self-conscious as one of his living personas was in the spotlight, so he spoke of himself in the third person, seeing old Rashalika in the Red Guru Seat. “Second gear!” caroline (suddenly little mouse leaps onto the calendar, and with a clttersome cerfuffle a bunch of physical objets connector as the teleporting Earth jerked up to hit the stationary objects and the fluffy white cat) [Littlmouse stops that moving Earth theory] “SECOND GEAR!” yells the voice of Caroline in my head, I’m the little Rashalika learning to drive a toy car that is powered by a double A battery and has  (this is not the AP journal so it could be another purple journal, Another Purple Journal, or chatper 38(((no more ors))) five gears. The gear denotes level of incarnation, so I usually go dreulor milton anton Harold Rashalika Myron Tara, but that line of portal linked planets can’t  . . . and what is magic smoke, anyway?End Clause Delta ThetaCHAPTER THIRTY NINE“Put Rashalika in the spotlight again, Harold. I like it when you are his author.”  Caroline stood to attention in her French maid (Poor Rashalika) costume and said “Third gear”.She was holding a jug of mango juice on a silver tray.“What? I usually start in dreulor. This chapter was so self indulgent that I keep re typing the word word word (pause) term term term word. Type that meaning into the new-fangled computator PC electrical writing mache and dad, that’s paper, that’s a hard copy. What makes that book more valuable than kindle?ANOTHER PURPLE JOURNALSaturday thirteenth of February. Clause theta. At eleven twenty I began to write on my infernal machine, obviously a mistake. This is not optimistic thinking. So basically I write to postpone magic smoke. It may be some kind of clause delta as well but I left my cask at Roberto’s place last night. I was mostly talking with Guy, drinking wine and smoking from my bong. I need a new conceptual machine with self naming and fadrigoish lexicons. I seem to get on very well with guy. We were on the sofa. Roberto was in a more distant chair watching strange movies for the promised nudity and sex scenes.Monday the twenty second of February. I tried to get on the internet but it’s not working. I deeply regret opening this stupid book. I was writing by hand in the Kangaroo Journal having missed Anatomy and Physiology and I’m procrastinating study. I have no ideas for silly fiction. I don’t want to write Another Purple Book, but you know how it is. Today I seek to avoid wine again.JOURNAL OF DREAMSThis is not the journal of dreams and I don’t recall any dreams that I could write into the document that I see on my desktop. I just try to make my writing more confusing. In the dream I was working in the kitchen area of a large pub or suchlike. There were incidents with thrown paint and fire crackers. Mostly I was washing up. There was a large kind of cheetah in Guy’s house.Caroline wakes up, recalling a strange dream and looks around for Rashalika. The book had calmed down and nothing much was happening. I thought of something strange and slightly obscene that could happen next but then to be boring I decide against it. I can’t think of anything to write about although I’d like to do the fiction.JOURNAL THAT MAY AS WELL BE THE AQUA BOOKI want to avoid wine today. Recently I was buying casks and drinking eight glasses and vomiting and so on, so I have decided to try again the mostly wine free life. I should study more, but I’m writing this instead. I wish I could have a deep conversation with Caroline, yet I have no ideas and I am not sure what counts as deep any longer.  I have decided to write several highly boring paragraphs as I pretend to wait for a glass of water. This is what the Aqua Book is all about.The first thing to do is write a paragraph about very little so that the time will go past and I can drink the water. This is the Aqua that I crave. The time is two twenty eight. I will go up, back to the Journal of dreams to write a bit of dream that I had last night. The phone rang. On the phone was Karen, who was seeking working home owners, as most phonecalls do. I wrote a bit of dream.The next paragraph is really boring. Caroline is simply so thirsty she could kill a demon for a drink of water. I see a cheetah. I wait for three PM when I can let myself drink. I have absolutely nothing to write about. I am not even Caroline. I am Harold Anton Kruger although the birth certificate that Wallace ordered through the internet for me identifies me as Harold McGee.I have noticed a problem with this boring journal. I keep adding other topics as if I want to make it interesting. The time is two forty one. I long for a drink of water. That’s the idea. It is false, of course because this is not really the Aqua Book. This is just another Purple book. The cheetah is the African calendar for February. Obviously I use the calendar of another planet when the twenty third of February is Saturday, not Tuesday, which does confuse some of the aliens.And what is the purpose of this confusion? Are there really pragmatic methods here? Is it simple escapism and just what you are used to? Ten to three. Soon I can drink that water. I may even drink orange mango juice. I’m not drinking wine today, that’s the idea. And I could write in the Kangaroo Journal by hand, or I could study more.CHAPTER THIRTY EIGHT“I’m looking for Rashalika,” said Caroline, accepting a drink from Dali.“I haven’t seen him. I’m scared of grasshoppers, you know.”“That seems besides the point. You paint such strange scenes.”“That’s also besides the point. This is surrealism not pointalism.” Dali responded, fiddling with his small moustache. Women made him uncomfortable.“It’s good to drink at last, I’ve been so thirsty.”“What’s the time?”“Ten past three.”ANOTHER PURPLE JOURNALI drank the water, pretending that I was on the planet Jaragul. The water tasted strange. I was almost mad again, it seemed. I pretended to be hard at work on one of my documents. It was an egocentric thing to do, and most of the things I did were egocentric. Why even try to change? I’m sick of such strange efforts. I doubt that I can ever pass this Diploma of Remedial Massage. I will return to the minimal life.“Why so negative, Harold?” asked Caroline, “I think you can pass the Diploma.”“What are you doing in my Journal? You go in the chapters, not the Journal.”“I’ll go where I like,” said Caroline, wrinkling here nose like a rabbit.“Pass the bong. You know I’m not quiet in my writing.” Said Harold, rolling his eyes.“No Cannabis for you. You have a very mental kind of illness. We will discuss quietness another day, now where is Rashalika?”“You came into my Journal looking for Rashalika? In here He’s Just imagination, My alter ego or whatever you call a fictitious Demonlord here on Earth.”“Well I thought we were on Jaragul,” said Caroline with a wink.“No, I was only pretending. There’s no detail. I know nothing about Jaragul.” Said Harold moodily.“But---,”“None of your buts, Caroline. My mouse-like persona does not even reveal itself in text. Here I can rudely cut you off to say something equally meaningless. I don’t want to talk to you. This conversation is over.”The time is three thirty seven. I am alone, working on another cryptic document. My name is Rashalika. My incarnations involve the changing of spiritual gears and here on Jaragul . . .Only kidding. My real code name is Harold and I am on the Earth writing a very boring kind of journal to pass the time while I wait for the next drink of water. This relates directly to the coffee book in which I had coffee every hour. Perhaps today’s text is not so boring. I try not to be.There’s a phone call from Mum on my mobile. The chemotherapy treatment is over and Alan’s condition is called stable, so he’s happy about the result while she thinks it not so positive. At five I will walk to her house. Now I am simmering some soup mix just to be pedantic. I change my clothes and put a lid on the pan. Quoll eats some dry food in the kitchen and stretches. Caroline Yawns.CHAPTER FORTY Caroline put the book down and gazed around the library. There were curvaceous shelves of books in a fairly small and spunky room. Harold was in the other velvet armchair. His chair was called the seat of tranquillity while Caroline was in the chair of good depression. Caroline was tired of Another Purple Book. Harold was writing The First Book of Caroline.“Maybe we should talk about relationships and women,” said Caroline. There was silence in the library for some time.“Harold?”“We should not talk in the library. It’s the place of silence. The place where I am most comfortable.”“But once you told me you wanted to be more social, to talk rather than write.”“That was a long time ago and right now I am writing.”“What are you writing?” Caroline asked innocently.“This is my latest work. The First Journal of Caroline.”“Well what does it mean to you? Isn’t it just a substitute for a real relationship? I mean we could have a good conversation here.”“I’m reluctant. I hesitate. I can’t think of things to say much of the time.”“Well I’ve never noticed that when you talk to me,” Caroline pointed out.“You are Imaginary.”“So are you, and this library.” Caroline tapped the book she was holding. Her hair was mouse coloured.ANOTHER PURPLE BOOKThis is nothing like the first Purple book, which was all journal writing. I felt I could have written out the conversation between me and Caroline as a much longer chapter, but whenever I want to I switch back to my Journal writing. Now that I am supposed to study the theoretical massage subjects I do a lot of writing. I was writing journal-like material a lot of today, which was in a lesson about Manage Occupational Health and Safety.The night is quite warm. The chair of tranquillity has swapped places with the default chair so the latter is outside. It stinks of a dead mouse. There was a Karen in the class today but I don’t speak to her. I have to remember that all Karens are different.I feel quite ambivalent about women. I don’t think that they can ever match me well in a relationship. I cancelled my subscription to the matchmaking site. A relationship would not solve anything and I am not skilled in them. I have low libido. I tend to upset women that I meet. In some ways I am still generally attracted and the idea of an interaction with a woman seems very significant to me. In another way I don’t know what it means and I am baffled by the real women I have known. The reality is not what I was interested in, generally speaking.I think that I am too selfish for a relationship. I have little to give and by default I upset the woman without meaning to, since my social skills are lacking. If Caroline reads this we don’t need a long chapter forty, but then that would turn out quite differently.I have little confidence that I can pass this massage diploma and I like to think that I just do it for the attempt, for a something to do that is better than having nothing to do. Maybe I just have negative thinking and eventually I can pass the diploma. At this stage I don’t think I would like to work in it, but then I only know the relaxation massage and most clients want firm pressure. With other modalities such as myofascial release and accupressure or shiatsu this would be different.The way I feel now I am far more interested in my silly writing and I continually procrastinate study. Who knows if or when I would ever finish. I don’t want to work in massage more than four hours a week and I can do that in the clinic for students as it is, so I could just do the same thing for years. Of course I don’t know what the future could hold.CHAPTER ONERashalika paused the game called Harold and made sure the experiences were saved. He was enjoying this game and he had a great many games in his collection. He could recall all the details in his photographic memory now that he was out of the game, yet when in the game he forgot a lot of them as the character did. Now he had a far deeper perspective of the game than the Harold.JOURNALChapter one was mostly copied from the Kangaroo Journal.  It is Saturday the twenty seventh of February. I have done the watering and today I read most of chapter on the skeleton. The text is absurdly detailed and ripe with Jargon. I only remember a fraction of what I have read. Also I have been shopping, done two loads of washing (mostly towels for massage), cooked a soup and wrote a letter for centrelink. I posted the letter and helped Anne with her bag of shopping. Later she gave me some beef in a plastic bag. Anne is not her real name, yet it is her code name. I have forgotten her real name. She told me her code name over two years ago. She hardly talks. She is very small and old and comes from the Philippines. She lives opposite me.When I walked home from shopping I noticed the realistic graphics of the reality, yet by the jerky way the trees moved in the wind I knew it was virtual, and I thought of my life as Rashalika’s game, which led me to write in the Kangaroo Journal and then to write Chapter one. When I turned on the printer to print the letter to centrelink  Another Purple Book was automatically printed. In the past my life used to be Rashalika’s dream rather than game. The time is ten to eight.Roberto invited me for wine last night, so my giving up attempt did not last long as I accepted and we drank strange-tasting wines.  Roberto told me various things about guest houses and hostels he had lived in. I told him about my previous places with the housing trust. Roberto has proportions that remind me of a bearded dwarf. He told me about a friend he used to know who had his eye scratched out by a cat.I can hear distant music. It’s getting dark. It’s time to blow this popsickle stand and get back to reality.CHAPTER TWORashalika rode in the nucleus of an osteoblast, a bone producing cell in the zygomatic bone of Caroline’s cheek, as he liked the shape of her cheek bones and wanted to count on a deeper level. Rashalika gave the order for proteins that bind to calcium to be made. Caroline’s bones were alive and riddled with bone cells; osteocytes, the mature bone cells and the osteoblasts that Rashalika was riding and osteoclasts that were involved in dissolving bone. Blood vessels ran through microscopic canals in the bone to supply the bone cells nutritionally and remove their toxic wastes.Rashalika teleported to an osteocyte in the Sella Turcica bone in Caroline’s skull that cradled her pituitary gland. This was a major endocrine gland of the body. Rashalika liked to be close to the action. Many hormones were released by this gland and corresponded with Caroline’s emotions.JOURNAL Monday 8th of March. I reported feeling like a dead crab today. I had a good night with Guy and Roberto and I drank too much wine. There was guitar playing and interesting conversations. Today is quite wet and cloudy. I’ve pulled muscles in my back, and the Friday massage is suspected. I had some vague ideas about the fiction. Perhaps I could write one of my little chapters. I sent an email to Dave and one to Anne, oh and one to Jamie about the cover art that has to wait for Demonlord.The spectre of study looms over me as a dark cloud. I can’t face more anatomy at this time. It is five to twelve. What I thought I could do is write some boring journal material in Another Purple Book. The Purple Book itself is not worth reading, although actually you need to read it to grasp the significance of this book. In that book I tried to write my way out of writer’s block and depression. I stopped at a time when my mood happened to be better and thought that the method worked. The method does not work. I want to make that clear.This book is not another Purple Book, and my contradiction is necessary. This is clearly something else, although you could say it is just more of the kind of text I typically produce. The last time I started another purple book it turned into the Jade Book, which is a waste of resources and should never be read by anyone.I feel painful today and somewhat hungover. I swallowed paracetamol. I think I have run out of anything I was going to write which means I have reached clause three. But I have eaten a cheese sandwich for lunch. This changes everything. I’m bound to reach the moon at this rate.I think I will start my clause three in this paragraph. I’m not going to explain what that means if you don’t already know, I’m just going to produce some highly boring text. I’m good at producing boring text and this is one of my finest examples. Here I express virtually nothing and clearly waste time for us both. I have other things that need my attention that I currently procrastinate. If you want to read text I’d say there are many texts out there which you would find more profitable than this one.The next paragraph was far worse. It undermined the entire novelty value of the document and existed only as a blemish on the face of English literature, like bad pornography. They twitched and shuddered as they reached orgasm indeed. It was a severely hopeless paragraph and words cannot express how much I regret ever producing it.CHAPTER FOURTamaria gazed around the enormous vault full of junk. Rashalika picked up the mandible of a Hyena and pointed out the ramus for Tamaria’s attention.“Almost every structure has a function.” Said Rashalika, “These vaults are part of my machine, where I store information.”“I don’t know what you are talking about,” said Tamaria.“You don’t have to. I’m just filling your subconscious with some of the information. Your conscious mind does not have to understand. Later on you will have some very productive dreams. Did you know that this vault is in one of Caroline’s skull bones? I’ve installed an airlock. We are too tiny for her to feel a thing, of course.”“I want a drink,” said Tamaria.JOURNALHarold was writing his computer Journal on a green notebook as Caroline sipped coffee and gazed from the ramparts of the fort into the desert of Pangolin.“Look this bit is wrong,” said Caroline, “You just mixed the journal up with the fiction.”“I’m never wrong or confused,” said Harold just for the Hell of it.“Yes you are. It should be Chapter Five, not Journal.” She waved her hard copy of Another Purple Book that had a flat thermal binding.“Tell me more about the little voices in your head.”“That would be changing the subject.”This kind of confusion is not the best I can do. Caroline does not exist although Roberto dreams of her. I am in a parallel reality as indicated by the Cult of Time bookcase, which contains two stopped clocks that accurately record the time in other dimensions. I am not drinking wine today and I may well avoid it all day, If I don’t buy a bottle.CHAPTER FIVE“Is this better?” wrote Harold.“Slightly, but I detect a lingering quality of confusion,” said Caroline. A hot wind blew across the roof of the fort, ruffling the pages of her hard copy. The coffee was finished and the Hobbit Cornelius was pouring glasses of red wine for them. He was dressed in scarlet pantaloons and a white shirt. Caroline wore a black slinky number while Harold wore long shorts and a Tshirt printed with;                                             NATIONAL                                             SARCASM                                              SOCIETY                                  As if we need your supportHarold sipped the wine. Cornelius bowed and walked away. Caroline leafed through her hard copy looking for errors to edit out while Harold worked at the computer.“I thought you had anatomy to study today,” said Caroline wrinkling her nose like a rabbit.“I do, but since I woke up feeling like a dead crab I thought I should recover before attempting more study.”“Do you promise to study later today?”“No. What is this? Reality?”“This is a sounding board for ideas.”“I beg to differ. The ideas are something else, and I don’t have any for my journal.”JOURNALI don’t like the way the fiction is going. The action has slowed right down from chase scenes to boring conversations in fantasy locations. Luckily I can come through later and edit all the slow material out until I am left with a racy best seller. Of course I only write that for effect. I really like the way this text is developing, although it is a bit of a shame that I am drinking wine in the fiction.In fact I am not drinking wine. Yet I have come to like the way I can alternate between fiction and journal, even if they do sometimes get mixed up. I thought the confusion would make things a bit more interesting.CHAPTER SIX“I have to tell you something,” breathed Caroline, “I don’t just replace Karen. Karen is still in the fantasy world and I slip through a portal to meet her on Dalurth.”“What?”“Yes, she’s my lover. I thought it was about time that you knew and wrote it into the text.”“This is highly irregular, like certain verbs. Karen is supposed to be forgotten, not entering into lesbian relationships with my replacement character.”“I’m my own woman,” said Caroline with pride“That tends to happen, I’ve noticed.” Said Harold, sipping red wine.JOURNALIt seems that I still have ideas for my writing today, which is good. Never mind about the study. I can do that later, or something. Something is quite huge, when I think about it. The black clock is stuck at five past nine. The computer clock is now at two PM and ticking steadily into the future. I am in the Red Guru Seat facing south. Reality is all around me yet I can peer into the fiction in front of me, and make it up as I go, as a part of my reality. It’s all very strange.CHAPTER SEVENHarold and Caroline raced across the roof of the fort and into the lift. They descended to the courtyard and leapt onto giant cheetahs which were waiting for them. They raced off at amazing speed into the desert.“I’m not ready for that,” said Caroline as she sipped her wine, “I’d rather we stayed here and had a decent conversation.”“We need more action to make a best seller.”“Your writing is not about producing a best seller. It’s not going to happen.” The hot desert wind caressed them.“Well,” replied Harold reluctantly, “You can’t get a decent conversation out of me. Most of my vital information is censored.”“You can be as private as you like,” said Caroline, wrinkling her nose like a rabbit, “but even to tell me about the censored information communicates something. It’s better than racing across the desert on giant cheetahs.”Harold sipped his wine and said nothing. The sun was intense but as small as a jalapenos in the azure sky. He didn’t like the way that Caroline interfered with his fiction, yet he was not quite assertive enough to say this to her face. Her hair was mouse-coloured.JOURNALThe time is 4:41 AM tomorrow morning and I am writing fiction into my notebook. Caroline wants conversation by now but I cannot decide on the nature of that conversation. It might take a longer chapter. Of course in many ways I do not have to have prior ideas for a conversation, since something can just develop while I am writing.I should study. I woke so early and I have time to study anatomy but this I procrastinate. First I write in the Kangaroo Journal, which is in my hand writing, and this leads me to Another Purple Book. I drank no wine yesterday and had something like a recurring headache. My back aches and twinges. I feel quite serene. The time is almost five, and I doubt that I have any ideas that are worth writing down at this time.What I do in purple books is to ignore this crucial factor and keep writing. I am not wearing my computer glasses. I hear the miow of Princess Kitty. Wait here. I let her in and stroked her as she purred and rubbed against my legs.CHAPTER SEVEN“A relationship with a woman strikes me as in one sense vital and in another quite impossible,” said Harold as he sipped his wine.“Very interesting,” replied Caroline, “tell me more.”“Don’t you see how contrived this conversation is? A real woman never responds like that, and I feel that I am a failure at relationships. Now my libido is low so I have little confidence and I just don’t get attracted as I used to.”“Well, a different phase, then. A new kind of relationship perhaps.”“No. I don’t know what I want, but it’s probably not a relationship.”“But you called it vital.”“Well in one way it seems vital, yet in another way impossible. I’m so used to being single. I would not cope with the compromises a relationship requires.”“That must depend on the other person. You can’t just write the whole thing off before it starts.”“Yes I can, and in another way I don’t. I still have some kind of interest in meeting people. But I do tend to feel fatalistic about it all.”“A mental habit that can be changed,” said Caroline as she sipped her wine.“Change is a long, slow process.”“It can be, but you can’t expect instant changes.”JOURNALAt least I finished the workbook questions for chapter five. That was after I re-woke at about twelve, since I returned to bed at around five or five thirty. So I have done some study today. It gave me a headache. I won’t be drinking wine. That’s out of the question.CHAPTER EIGHT“Another top up, Demonlord?”“Thank you, Cornelius. I’m getting a bit tipsy,” said Harold.“Me toooo, you cute little Hobbit!” exclaimed Caroline. Her eyes were bright and she moved a lot on her chair.“Certainly, Demonlady,” said Cornelius as he poured the red wine. He bowed and left, carrying the bottle.“Harrr old,” slurred Caroline as she sipped her wine, “ I’m sthorry what I said about not being a beast cellar.”“That does not matter,” said Harold, “but just look at this instant change. You’re drunk.”“Ooooh, not reeely!” exclaimed Caroline as she wrinkled her nose like a rabbit.“Yes you are.”“Wellll, all the betta for seduction,” said Caroline with a wink, “I am bisexual you know.”“You have the wrong idea, Caroline. For me you are a character and a key worker. Besides, you are already involved with Rashalika and Karen.”“Ooooh, don’t be such a killjoy,” said Caroline as she slurped her drink, “you know this ees a great book. You really use the Purple Book method and get the engine started and get into fiction and the more inspired writing.”JOURNALI cooked up some onions and beans. Princess kitty is saying miow at my feet and I stroke her. I have a decaf to drink and I think I have run out of ideas for fiction. I should study, as always. I ate a bowl of the onion and beans. When I run out of fiction I return to the Journal, so there is this contrast.Friday 12th March 2010, 3AM. I’m sorry, the other material is censored. I wrote it into the Kangaroo Journal. What am I doing awake at this time? It was too much wine that did it. Then when I couldn’t sleep I became very negative and wrote a few pages of self insults. I also wrote that I was so disgusted that I was going to boil beans, and I did. I wrote that I was made of plastic.Then I went back to bed for a while and then got up and dressed again, writing in the journal that I would contradict all the negative material I previously wrote. I claimed the insults were a joke to me, and the purpose of the journal was to keep me amused. I called it a bizarre sense of humor, claiming that most people didn’t get the joke, but I did.What do you make of that? Could any of it be true? What is censored and written into the Kangaroo Journal? We just don’t know in Another Purple Book. Could the Harold be as strange as I pretend? I’m seriously beginning to wonder about this character.CHAPTER NINE AND A HALFCaroline caused her cheetah to scrunch down and she slid out of the saddle.“Excuse me! Hello, I’m Caroline.”“Top o’ the morning. I be farmer Ham.”“Have you seen Harold? He rides on another big cat.”“Lovely little chickens! See how they run.”“They look like quail.”“No, little tiny chickens!”“About Harold . . .”“Teeny tiny chickens.”“I see.”CHAPTER TENRashalika the high Demonlord plugged back into the game called Harold. He could really appreciate the experiences and loved irony. The Harold experiences used to be a dream, but the wacky Demonlords had switched to virtual reality games and electronically induced experiences.JOURNALGosh, I’m Harold again. What a bother. I see the psychologist for the second time at ten thirty. I did write a short list of positives, as he asked me. I’d written a long list of issues and faults for his information. I’d rather talk to Caroline, of course, but a psychologist is the next best thing. I don’t think my short positive list really balances out the long negative list, and this in itself is one of the negative issues. I put creativity on the positive list, and also dedicated to being mad. I’m not sure that this really is a positive, or if it’s now relevant since now I’m completely sane, But BirdE said it was something he admired about me. When I was into madness I did it properly and worked hard at my insane projects and conceptual machines.CHAPTER ELEVEN“I don’t know what you mean by conceptual machines, Harold.”“I like it when you wrinkle your nose like a rabbit.”“What’s a conceptual machine?”“Well, it starts out as pure imagination. Imagine an advanced kind of machine on the table here. To be more science fiction it can float just above the table. The machine is made of glass and coloured light and contains a photonic computer. What it can do is project a virtual reality experience, so it projects this scene on the top of the fort in the desert of Pangolin. It projects the two of us as characters in the world, and all the other people and creatures around. Then it records what is behind it and projects that scene in front of it so that it becomes invisible. That’s why we can’t see it. Then it begins to function in other conceptual ways. Actually I’ve forgotten how. My phase of madness was some time ago.”“Was it really?”“Yes.”JOURNALAmazingly I finished off the glass of wine. I was getting hot so I took off my jumper, took off my T-shirt and put my jumper back on. Will I get any sleep tonight? It’s already tomorrow morning. I was still hot so I took off my jumper and put the T-shirt back on. It says Thailand.If I put the same effort into my study as I do on this document I might make some progress, but I find study much harder. I much prefer to write strange fiction in here. I have poured yet another glass of wine. According to my black record diary it’s my tenth glass of wine. It’s a lambrusco.CHAPTER TWELVECornelius the hobbit appeared with a silver tray. He placed a small crystal bong in front of Harold and one in front of Caroline. Then he gave them a lighter each. Lastly he placed a container of mulled buds on the glass table top.Harold found the first cone was already packed. He closed off the shot-hole with a finger as he lifted the bong to his lips and lit the mull in the cone-piece. Smoke bubbled up through the bong as he inhaled deeply and then held his breath.“Well, It certainly beats a desk job,” said Caroline as she picked up her crystal bong.JOURNALThursday. Is this really happening? Here I am on Thursday at seven PM.  Today I have done no study, as usual. I did go in to the academy to give a doctor’s certificate as I hurt my back massaging in the clinic. I have been avoiding study and drinking a bottle of wine everyday. I might go next-door as Roberto is screaming.Saturday 20th March 2010.The idea of a Purple Book is to write any kind of material while suffering from writer’s block and low mood. My mood is not that bad, but I don’t have many ideas for writing. This is probably a good situation for writing a Purple Book. What I will do is force myself to produce paragraphs of low quality text rather than work on my assignments and as a method of avoiding the Kangaroo Journal. In that text Rashalika yanked at levers and pressed buttons at random but the detrag kept writing. I deeply apologize for the previous paragraph. It is nothing like the example I wanted. Here I start again. I want to turn this document into an authentic Purple Book that has paragraphs of boring text.  I have no ideas as I gaze at the screen through my witching glasses. My mind is blank like a thick bank of numb fog. And, a little bit more actually, I work to sabotage my ostensible plan. I try to make the writing more interesting than I said I would, as if to set up a false dichotomy to replace my real struggle, which apparently I don’t want to mention.This paragraph tries hard to be boring as it plans to fail, and since I think that I do fail in many ways I want to set things up so that failing is better as my plan is absurd. Success would imply paragraphs of boring text, but luckily some people would really find this text boring. It depends on the reader. I did think of a chapter of fiction in which Caroline talks to me about my visits to the psychologist. Do I really want to drag my issues in here?Probably not I thought as I focussed on the pure production of text. Here’s an issue. Writing this document instead of working on assignments. I could discuss it here. Why do I procrastinate my study so stubbornly? Then I realized that it was not a good idea to discuss my issues in this document, so I avoided dealing with this issue and focussed on the text, hoping it was boring enough and wishing it was not.Occasionally I thought of fiction. Harold and Caroline could be engulfed by a wave of pleasure as the drug took effect, but what then? A weed-quest? I think about the witching glasses and then decide against producing fiction. I will stick to the journal today. Wolis said he would pick me up at around one, to be realistic, and I would be home by three. When I’m home I’m planning to buy a bottle of wine. I put a bowl of rice mixture to cook in the microwave. The time is twelve.Seconds went by, whole minutes disappeared into the vortex of time as I ate lunch. Now that eating experience is just a memory, a part of my past that can be hard to relate to. The time is 12:19. Well, at first I wrote 12:18 but then when I looked at the clock this time was out of date and I had to go back and correct it. I think I’m obsessed with time. Tick tick. I once called myself a text-producing clock, but that’s all behind me now.By twelve thirty I had completely run out of ideas for my writing and entered into what is known as clause three. You may be familiar with this clause. It means I insist on writing when the ideas have run out. My head is completely empty, I can assure you. So what I do is remember things from the previous Purple Book. There was a rocket on a launching pad. There was a clock and a ball. The ball would get rolling towards first the clock and then the rocket. They had colours. I think the clock was gold.First of april 2010Hello. April fool, I don’t really mean hello. There are several Purple book documents on the desk top and I don’t understand the difference. I write after Alan’s funeral. Rosie and Dani were in Adelaide. Today I almost tried to study more than I did, and I went into town to hand in my myo I assignment. Now I have finished a bottle of merlot. The internet let me down researching massage and depression. Rice mixture cools on the table. Rosie counseled me on the phone and I avoided Dani to follow her wishes while she treated me like her wishes had changed and I was free to communicate and I’m confused. But I can’t communicate.CHAPTER FIFTY ONECaroline wandered through the baking desert sand on the planet Pangolin. The intense, blueish sun was as small as a jalapenos. She was thirsty. She had lost her riding animal and her Harold so she had no purpose or meaning. She scanned the horizon with miserable eyes.Then Caroline spotted a beach umbrella. In the little pool of shade was a table and a chair resting on a circle of polished wooden floor. A jug of orange liquid stood on the table next to a long glass. A smartly dressed brown android stood in attendance. He greeted Caroline and had her sit down in the shade.“Mango juice, madam? The first glass is free.”“I recognize you, Harris, and this situation. This book is Demonlord. I’m looking for the author. But I thought it was orange juice.”“That depends on the version of the book,” said Harris smoothly as he poured the orange liquid into the long glass. Caroline gulped it down.“Where is Harold?”“How could I know that?” asked Harris with a smile.JOURNALThursnight 8th April 2010It is the witching hour so I am wearing my witching glasses and writing in another purple book. The glasses change me from Earth to Jaragul, where I wrote another version of Demonlord. I decided there was really no need to put a drug in the juice.The daily bottle of wine keeps me awake so rather than study I have been writing in the wombat journal with a red pen. In there I write about my project of keeping my house as a museum after my death with all my journals and other books housed in a library. In the future some scholars would study all my writing, and I aim to produce a lot of it. Most of it is in hand-writing in a physical book.  The journals are amazingly boring but there is no accounting for taste. Some people in the future are curious and want to read what is in those books.I did think of performing a spot of magic in the witching hour but I decided not to bother. It would only confuse my phases and now I am no longer in my magical phase. I am really wearing my computer glasses on the planet Earth. Ten minutes of the witching hour remain.For the museum library project there is someone in charge. This person must protect the books and other junk and they issue permits to worthy people who study my books. One beautiful woman spends a lot of time scanning the hand-written pages into a computer format. She is also in charge of my website. Guess what her name is?CHAPTER FIFTY TWO“Another glass, madam?”“No thank you, Harris. I want to find Cornelius, who could be a psychic business hobbit in this version of the book.”“He is indeed. He is my boss. One moment.”Caroline waited a moment and Harris activated a small gadget. The desert faded out and then returned with a difference. A large dune with a round door set into it stood in front of them, and beside it a row of washing machines. A rack of fluttering white strips stood above the washing machines. In the shade was a carpet with two cats on it and a table surrounded by benches.Caroline stepped off the polished wooden floor and it disappeared. The door in the dune opened and Cornelius stepped out. He wore bottle-green silk pantaloons and a velvet waistcoat. On his head was a white bandanna with words printed on it.“Welcome back, Demonlady. I am indeed a psychic business hobbit and Harold will meet you here soon. He’s riding a large cheetah through the desert as we speak.”“How did I get into this book?”“It just happens to be topical. It’s in the process of publication as we speak, but actually how it happens is a bit of a mystery. Even Harold may not know.”“Gosh.”“Gosh is unsure.”JOURNALThe witching hour is all over. Pity I did not do any magic. Never mind, my magic did not exactly work in the past. This is how it works in the future. I can see my name in large letters on a label stuck on my computer. I think of drinking wine but of course there is none. Drinking bottles is not as bad as drinking casks. There’s four glasses per bottle. I was not tipsy but it clearly had some effect today. Being awake at one thirty tomorrow morning is part of the effect. In fact I should call this Friday. Perhaps I should go to bed. I practice yawning but I am not really sleepy. I’m sure I would not sleep even if I rested my legs up the wall for ten minutes.Next I write a rather curious paragraph that claims it is an attempt at pure text. All I do is produce text, and most of it is impure, of course, but every so often a paragraph like this crops up which thinks that it is unlike the regular text. It thinks it is pure text and there is no actual content. This makes no sense, but some paragraphs just want to be different and special.Quoll rests on the seat of tranquility while I am in the red guru seat typing into the computer. I use an old external keyboard. The time is 1:45 and I have absolutely nothing to report. Then Princess kitty miows at the door and I let her in and stroke her and pick her up and put her down and pour some dry food for her in the kitchen, which she now crunches. She purrs as usual.This morning when she was on my lap I stroked her and told her to stop purring and she disobeyed me. What a naughty cat.I don’t know where the fiction is going and perhaps that is just as well. In a way I want to return to the party where Hegel smokes bongs with Marx and Dali, or whatever. Dali paints as if he’s on drugs but so did I before I’d ever tried drugs. Perhaps I could work on some interesting conversations between the characters. What would Marx say to Buddha and Jesus? I have little idea. Opiate of the masses material? Anyway I won’t write that, I will write what I say to Caroline. Here again I’m in the dark. Partly I want to write them into a sex scene and at the same time I want to avoid this and keep her as a key worker. Use her like a library. That sort of thing.CHAPTER FIFTY THREE“These chapter numbers seem rather arbitrary,” mentioned Caroline.“What chapters?” asked Cornelius  as he opened a bottle of blue wine.“I don’t think you have my perspective on this literature,”“I don’t think you have mine, but let’s share some wine as we wait for Harold.”As they sat down at the table a wooden boat floated up to the dune. A man with small, regular features got out as the boat settled down on the sand and made Caroline think of a beach just at the sea-shore. She missed the sea.“Welcome back, Demonlord,” said Cornelius, bowing low.“Thank you, Cornelius. And you must be the new Caroline, I’m Milton Moon,”“Milton Moon? But . . .”“Another version. Now I don’t like to spoil the party but Harold is not really on this planet. Cornelius means well but he has false information. I happen to know that Harold is on the planet Dalurth, and that is where Caroline belongs. She’s a Goddess on Dalurth and I can take you there, Caroline. This boat can be flown through a portal.”“False information? I happen to be the psychic business hobbit in this version of the story. I know that Harold is on his way as we speak.”“Sorry, Cornelius, but I am the Demonlord. I have a long box full of books in this boat, and here it’s more precious than gold. We can take it to the library on Dalurth and enter into a different story altogether. These books form a matrix of executive information, and we can meet Harold on Dalurth.”At that moment a silver crow who had been perched on the fabric rack above them floated down to land on the table.“Greetings, characters, I am Guru. At this point you must choose a storyline, Caroline. Do you stay on Pangolin waiting for Harold or travel to Dalurth with Milton? Which book do you choose?”There was a pregnant pause. A hot breeze ruffled the strips of fabric on the rack. They were crazy lists. Cornelius poured glasses of wine.“I think we should all sit down and discuss this. We all think we have special Harold information, but I am sure that as the Caroline I hold a key role in the fiction. The author is still writing the text. He means for us to meet on Pangolin like this and discuss the direction of the literature. I’m not sure I have to choose the storyline. Characters don’t do that. Gentlemen, be seated. There is so much to talk about.”“Not more boring conversation! Why don’t you leap through portals and kill demons with a zap gun?”“Times have changed.” Caroline sipped her glass of blue wine which was fresh and acrid with a smooth finish and fruity aromas.“This version of Demonlord could be a very long and boring book,” said Milton. “You wait for Harold, who never turns up and the conversation gradually gets more mundane and slower paced.”“Oh it can’t be predicted from here. There is no plan,” said Guru, who did not sit down or drink any wine.“I think Harold aims to be here soon,” said Cornelius slowly, “He would rather be involved, drinking wine, getting to know his characters in style.”“Perhaps not,” said Caroline, wrinkling her nose like a rabbit, “What we have here is quite typical and classic literature. It’s highly self-indulgent, which is his trade mark and here we focus on the author, talk about him, play with the author-character relationship and so on. Harold is amazingly self-centred, but he does not have to be here as a character to be in the spotlight. I’m sure this is all just a devise to get more Harold attention in the text.”“So it would seem on the surface,” said Milton dryly as he sipped his wine, “but Harold may be enacting his deathwish. We, his characters in text survive him and discuss him. We have a long box full of his books. Pangolin is a classic starting point planet and without the author here we decide the future plots and themes. The characters get together and reflect on the author, he was here in the text but now he’s gone.”“That may be possible,” said Guru as the hot breeze ruffled his silvery feathers, “But Harold has been killed by Drishnu in the past and it made no difference. He kept writing and appeared in later texts.”“When was that?”“In the science fantasy bible of the demonlords.”JOURNALThe time is almost three AM. I must be the Harold called awake, by default. After my bottle of wine I visited Guy and Roberto and had another two glasses. I told Guy something about my writing project. The cats came in.As far as I can work out I came home, went to sleep, and woke up at three in the morning. It must be Saturday. Why don’t my characters look for me on Earth? I think I am usually here and it sucks. I am not even wearing the witching glasses.When I was awake I decided not to lie in bed. I got up and heated the pasta in the microwave. I ate the pasta and made a decaf. I try to induce a hypo-manic state via patterns of sleep, appetite and writing. Princess Kitty is in the seat of tranquillity.CHAPTER FIFTY FOURCaroline sipped her blue wine and glanced around to get some eye contact. She didn’t get much. She was desperately in love with Harold and wanted to find him and seduce him as soon as possible. These other characters might get in her way.“Maybe this book is a Harold quest,” Said Caroline, “We could all get in the boat and go to find him.”“That’s not original, a bunch of characters looking for their author.”“He will turn up soon if we wait,” said Cornelius.“Dalurth is our best bet,” said Milton, quaffing most of his wine. He stood up and walked to the boat. Caroline followed him.“I’m staying here,” said Cornelius. Guru looked undecided but then flapped to the boat.“This never happens in regular fiction,” grated Milton as he turned on the boat.“We could have had a great discussion,” said Cornelius.Caroline sat on the long box of books. Guru perched on the prow. Milton manipulated his remote control and the boat lifted into the air and began to float over the desert. Rashalika began talking to Caroline, and she hoped no one would notice.“There’s something sexual about it,” said Milton, “Boats going through portals.”“I think it’s more of a birth and death transition,” said Caroline.“well, let’s die on Pangolin and be born on Dalurth,” said Milton. The portal of blue electrical sparks opened before the boat and they slipped into it.CHAPTER FIFTY FIVEHarold extracted himself from the saddle loops and slip to the ground. The desert was baking hot. His Giant cheetah lay down. Slowly he walked to the stall. A hot wind ruffled his hair.“I’ve been so thirsty in this desert. Could I get a drink?”“Do you ask at every woman’s stall?”“I don’t often ask, and when I do I usually say the wrong thing so they don’t give me a drink.”“Well I want to drink with you. Here’s a lambrusco.”Harold sipped the wine and stared into the woman’s face.“Hello sweetie. I wasn’t into alcohol before I met you.”“And now you are?”“I drink at least a bottle a day. I started with you.”“That was a long time ago.”“It was, Eva, but I never forget. We were really in love. The sex was so good. No other girlfriend compared to you.”“I’ve forgotten. You left me.”“I went away for two weeks. I was sure our love would survive. I wanted to do the permaculture course. I regret it now. I should have stayed with you.”“Well, you didn’t.”JOURNALThe time is ten past four and I want to go back to bed. I feel strange writing about my sweetie. Eva was my greatest love. I thought it would be forever. Sometimes I just can’t understand why she’s not here with me. I grew bitter and twisted. There’s no romantic love in my life any longer and I don’t think I can fall in love again. I’ve been so long alone. Perhaps I was always too selfish.CHAPTER FIFTY SEVENThe wooden boat slid out of a portal and settled on the library floor. Karen looked up from her book. She sat in a green velvet armchair and wore a red velvet dress.“Greetings, Karen,” said Guru, “We come with literature.”Karen stood and looked at the people in the boat. She pointed at Guru and then at Milton. Fizzy blue light hit them. Milton lay down and went to sleep. Guru went into stand-by mode.“I’m the goddess around here,” said Karen, “We don’t need any males in this story.” She smiled and Caroline leapt out of the boat and into her arms. They kissed passionately. Caroline caressed Karen’s beautiful buttocks. Their tongues intertwined.“The bedroom!” panted Karen, and led Caroline through two sets of doors into a large, ornate bedroom with a huge four poster bed. Hungrily they undressed each other and kissed as they fell into the bed. Their hands roamed freely over each other’s bodies. Little sighs and moans escaped from their lips.Caroline sucked Karen’s stiff nipples, moving her tongue in circles, expertly teasing the erogenous flesh. Karen gasped with pleasure, and felt for Caroline’s nipples, squeezing gently. Caroline stroked Karen’s shapely legs and moved her crotch on Karen’s thigh as she continued to suck Karen’s left nipple. Caroline kissed and licked her way down Karen’s body until her mouth found Karen’s vagina. Karen moaned. Caroline lapped up the juice as it flowed and her tongue found Karen’s clitoris which she stimulated with a circular motion.Then Caroline swiveled to the 69 position and Karen lovingly reciprocated cunnilingus. The bodies of the women writhed and trembled. After a while Caroline reached orgasm and she cried out. Contact became unbearable and they lay apart.Gently they reconnected. Karen worked her fingers into Caroline’s vagina. She moved two fingers in and out and then used her thumb. Caroline’s body, now relaxed after orgasm, began to stretch. Karen’s whole hand entered her Vagina and she gasped. Karen found Caroline’s cervix and found she could slide a finger inside. Gradually Caroline’s womb expanded and Karen shrank and worked her way up into Caroline’s body.Caroline lay on the bed and slid her hand over her pregnant belly.JOURNALKaren was in my fantasies, but I have actually done some study, which amazed me though I had a bottle of wine as usual. The Galley proof of Demonlord arrived when I was drinking wine with Roberto. Will I ever read it? Mum is too sad to go to Yoga and wants to be alone. I cooked a kind of vegetable soup. It had chestnuts, sweet chili sauce and coconut milk.CHAPTER FIFTY SEVENCaroline emerged from the portal and sat down with Harold at the glass table.“I’m pregnant, Harold, with a daughter called Karen.”“How can you be pregnant?”“Maybe you ate some metric bananas,” said Caroline, gesturing towards the fruit bowl.“You mean I’ve forgotten something? I think you ate some of those. Anyway, the whole point of you as a character was as a karen substitute. I’m sure Karen wants to escape from my fantasy world. That’s her default theme. She wants to get back to Earth.”“I thought she did.”“Well she did a couple of times, but next thing I know she’s in the fiction again.”“Maybe she likes it here.”“I doubt it. She’s a bad addiction. She called my obsession with her unhealthy. I can’t imagine that the real Karen would like it.”“But you’ve had nothing to do with the real Karen for years. Here we only deal in imaginary Karen.”“I suppose so, but I feel a kind of loyalty towards the real Karen and her wishes.”“You can only guess what those are. Chances are she will never read this.”“I suppose not, but I don’t feel convinced. I feel guilty.”“Guilt can have various causes.”“Well I’m not going to discuss them now. You’d better go back to Dalurth. I’m not the father of Karen. This whole scene is bizarre.”“So you reject your daughter? That’s even worse. By the way, you know I can hear the voices of the Demonlords? Several of them talk to me now. Soon I will be playing with a full deck.”“Really?”“Don’t be sarcastic.”CHAPTER FIFTY EIGHT“Welcome, Demonlord. I see you are wearing a human again and you don’t remember me. I am Cornelius, a hobbit in your service.”“What?” asked Milton. He had no idea what was happening.“And I have fruit juice for you.”“What did you call me?”“Demonlord. Have a seat, Demonlord.”“No, I’m Milton. I’m a pilot and my ship has crashed in the desert here. This is the planet Pangolin?”“Yes this is Pangolin, and here I am Cornelius and you are the Demonlord. Have a seat.”Milton sat down on the wooden bench at the wooden table. He felt very confused.“Did you say hobbit?”“Exactly.”“But that’s fantasy.”“All life is fantasy in the end, but I am a hobbit.”“Did you say fruit juice?”“In this flagon. Orange-mango juice,” said Cornelius as he poured a glass.“I have no money.”“I know, but you are the Demonlord. Or, to be more accurate, you will become the Demonlord. In the future your memories will return, but for about two years you will have to keep eating the metric bananas. Cadwell will help you. I can reveal the plan now but you will forget about it later. Soon you will Meet Gimel and he will take you to Carmelia, who is a demon.”“A demon?”“Exactly. She will seduce you and teach you esoteric secrets of the dark arts every month. Then you will eat a banana to forget. In time you will become the Demonlord.”“This sounds bizarre.”“Reality often does.”JOURNALI can smell the rice cooking. Quoll is on the seat of tranquillity. My mouth tastes strange. The time is about twenty to eight. It is a Tuesday and I hear the rice cooker click. By the time I write I have eaten some of the rice mixed with soup. My plan is to go to bed. This is a good idea when you consider the facts. I am writing and I have absolutely no ideas. This is just another purple book, in the end, the place where I struggle with writer’s block and low mood. Not another boring book. Let’s go to bed.A week goes by. It is April 20, 2010. Today I have gone shopping and procrastinated study. I read the galley proof of Demonlord, my second book to be published. I could find no errors and I quite like the story. Mum rang about yoga. She’s had two hours of grief counseling this morning. I can hear a cat crunching dry food in the kitchen. It’s Quoll. She jumps up onto the computer table and I give her some scritchy scratchy. Now she is in the seat of tranquillity with Princess Kitty.CHAPTER FIFTY NINEHarold and the pregnant Caroline stepped through a portal and into the garden of Sequa on the planet Twilight Seven. Thousands of purple flowers filled the garden.“This is auspicious,” said Caroline, who wore a long white dress.“Sequa is the highest card in the deck,” said Harold who wore a dark suit with a tie. The air was fragrant and full of the calls of birds. A small crowd of beings were gathered in a clearing, and Facing them was a serene figure in long robes.“Sequa is beyond the void of power,” said Caroline, leading Harold through the crowd. The couple stood before Sequa, who smiled and began to speak;“We are gathered her today . . .”“Is this really happening?” murmured Harold.JOURNALI don’t have anything to write in my journal. Nothing is happening and my mind is perfectly blank. I woke up this morning and there was nothing that stretched in all directions. Infinite nothing. I did absolutely nothing for a long time. Then I found my journal and began to write. Obviously there was more than nothing, so I must completely disagree with everything that I wrote in this entry.Well I was writing in my wombat Journal by hand and all my journal information went in there. I don’t plan to repeat it here. This is clearly a Kosher document. I can see elephants. Recently I have had some low moods although I am not too bad today. Some days are a huge struggle. For some reason I expect myself to change quickly and say become an optimist who never gets sad again. My expectations are always unreasonably high. Once I went through a phase of trying to modify them, and expected to rapidly gain low expectations. That was another high expectation. When I get low moods this strikes me as a failure, and to think so makes me worse. Then I feel so addicted to my sadness, so unable to ever change. Perhaps being a miserable pessimist is a part of my personality that I can never change. Thinking this does not exactly help.When my mood is better I can believe in change for the better. Yet when my mood is low it seems I can never implement a strategy to improve since I feel helpless and the victim of mental illness. I need some positive energy to start with to ever think that a strategy like CBT could work. In depression I am devoid of faith and positive energy. At the time I can’t believe I have any power to improve. In a way I don’t want to. The depression is so familiar, and I’m full of self pity.To be successful must I change my thinking during the time of depression? This does strike me as impossible and one of the toughest of addictions. Today I did not buy a bottle of wine. For a long time I have been drinking every day. I have had a long struggle with wine, and I may well continue struggling with wine and depression for the rest of my life. I suppose this is a pessimistic thing to write and does not give me the option of changing.Demonlord is about the mastery of addictions and the improvement of depression. It’s more optimistic than I usually am. It’s a short, neat story with a positive message. It is nothing like real life, which is long and has no kind of neat closure. Or not yet.Of course I am very interested in death and think that it must be an improvement on life. My complete project can only really start when I am dead. One plan I have is to distribute my hand written diaries to the people who come to my funeral. This scatters the books amid a small population, yet they can be gathered in collections and used as objects of power in an elaborate story of humanity. My hope is that they become valuable. Some people want to collect them and keep them in my museum library, which is another plan for my death project. In fact it contradicts the scattering wish. If my wishes are contradictory they cannot be followed in a simple way and there is greater potential for diversity and cultural growth.I can imagine a longer time scale in which the scattered books eventually get collected into the library. Not that I care. I’m dead, it must be remembered. I no longer have wishes, but you are supposed to respect the dead.Saturday first of May.I’m very depressed. I’ve been crying a lot and drinking wine. I feel quite incapable of dealing with myself and my life any more. I could suicide soon. It will be hard on people I know, especially Mum who has just lost Alan recently, but I want to die, and feel I have been hanging on for others, or for nothing, for so long. Much of life is just misery and challenges I cannot face, and women who reject me.I refuse to go to hospital. They give me drugs and lock me up with crazy people. I’d rather die. I might live. I have some things to live for, but I’m so sad at the moment that I can’t feel any connection to them. Please let me die. I’ve had enough. If you could see what’s in my mind you would reject me as well. So I reject life in general. I think I will be happier to be dead, since I am so rarely happy to be alive. I’m so problematic.CHAPTER FIFTY SEVENHarold and Karen sat opposite each other at a marble table in the roof garden of a strange city.Karen did not talk, she listened.“The bi-polar condition may be completely natural, Karen. It gives an experience of the emotional extremes that are more in sync with reality. It’s like a great deal of utter hell exists in life and so it is natural to feel really depressed at times. Then there is the incredible, manic side of life that needs to be experienced too.“Now if the statistics were different you could have a world where say eighty percent of all people were bi-polar, and it would be the norm and considered the more natural human condition. Then the doctors could say to you well stability is an illness, so the minority who were more stable would be classed as mentally ill. They would be medicated to induce the bi-polar condition. How would you like that Karen? Your rights could be taken away, and you could spend time in hospital. Would you be so keen on the mental health system then?”“I told you to use less imagination,” said Karen sipping her weak latte.JOURNALJune 2010.  I wrote a strange blog for gyroscope. I am avoiding wine today I hope yet avoiding delivering the letter to sharon. I’ve been depressed and unmotivated recently. I tried to make my identity musician and practice every day, and then skipped yesterday, writing a lot of tangled thoughts into my Deathwish Journal. It Refers to the book of Dreulor, who is my pessimistic identity. I feel more comfortable to write in there, and I might do that now.June 19, 2010.My mood is good at about six on the scale. I had no sleep at all and my mind ran over arguments I could use for religious door knockers, sometimes struggling to reach the more transcendent, accepting level of thought that I think is possible. I was ripping CDs in the evening and heard one on Yoga Nidra Relaxation, which really helped me gain a state of calm and good mood. I have put this on facebook and also asked Belinda if she still wants to meet up. It was her suggestion, although this will seem something like a date and she wrote that I was the most fascinating person she has ever met. I had a crush on her and my song about her is a kind of love song. I found the notes on the keyboard in the past and today plan to find them on the guitar.Of course Yoga Nidra is guided meditation and I have avoided meditation for a long time. As usual I had high expectations, tried to meditate everyday and became very frustrated when I could not achieve any calm state of mind. I worked on self-acceptance as my affirmation. I wish I could accept the religions I argue against in my head. My own philosophy is not more consistent than the bible, for example. I don’t really have a philosophy, just a jumble of conflicting notions.Is there a singular truth? Is contradiction accepted or transcended as Hegel might have it? Is logic the best method? For Buddha it was secondary yet still effective, such as in the Surangama sutra. Also zen koans set up a logical paradox for the mind to transcend with intuition. Is enlightenment the same as the truth? Or indeed knowledge.Perhaps I must just accept that there is so much that I just don’t know and will never find out. I seem to have a lot of beliefs, many of which contradict, and many of which I don’t really want to have at all. Can belief be chosen? Cultural background and personality seem to play the largest role. This may be one belief that I have, then I spiral off in dizzy circles. I want to see a bigger picture that I cannot see. Multiple truth realities both absolute and relative. Transjective beyond the subjective and objective.Clearly my mood is quite high, but I don’t think that I qualify as dangerously manic. My thinking is very active. This is to be expected without the antipsychotic. I wanted to risk the instability for the sake of higher and more creative moods. Whatever I take I am assured of the low moods.June 20, 2010I went to George’s for croquette with also Guy, David, Leanne and Michael the other day. I didn’t smoke or drink anything alcoholic but I drank two cups of tea. We ate hot dogs and played another game with metal balls that was completely new to me. At home I practiced Yoga Nidra again, working on the affirmation of self-acceptance. Again I stayed awake for many hours mostly arguing with Christians in my head, but eventually getting my mind to focus on the oneness of Hinduism and Eastern mystical ideas that lead back to acceptance.My mind has an auto-pilot setting that leads to these recordings of the arguments. They are my defense, dogma and antithesis to the Western Religions that knock on my door aiming to convert me. Both parties assume they have the more correct belief. They aim to convert each other. They are both human with limited and imperfect belief systems. In my mind I win the argument. In reality they have some kind of counter argument or just ignore me since they are in their own minds believing the truth.In another part of my mind I dislike the auto-pilot setting and want to be more accepting. I myself can bring in a different perspective to solve the sense of difference and reach a theoretical synthesis or transcendence of the argument, and this involves referring to the ideas of a religion they reject, unless indeed I can convert them.I have the notion from mystical religions that One ultimate Brama God manifests as many gods and then many beings who believe in their personal selfhood that ultimately is illusion. The notions of good and evil are hard to transcend. They may be relative or the yin and yang of a greater Tao, yet Taoism never says this, since you may go with the way or oppose it.Now I have looked in the Koran that David lent me and found a passage where god is instructing a band of believers to fight and kill the unbelievers. Satan features, but deserts his followers as he too fears the strict punishments of God. Thus the Koran contains this Holy war idea. Krishna has the answer to this in the Bahavagita, that the opposition and killing are illusionary, yet here again God is encouraging the apparently evil act of killing, while Killing seems to be one of the unethical acts of negative karma that cause suffering, and we must act ethically to gain salvation or enlightenment.If we love our enemies why not love Satan? The Myth of the fall of Satan is known to me, yet I have not found it in the bible. The fall of Adam and Eve is for the same sin of disobeying the law of God. It’s curious as knowledge of good and evil seem required before we can be ethical, yet before eating of the fruit they were innocent of this knowledge. Did Adam not realize that it was bad to disobey God?If Jesus is to be worshipped as a son of God, why not worship Adam? Sorry, this is in itself part of my critical argument. Yet this critical side may be required , the opposition of beliefs may be functional as is the opposition of muscles in a body. The higher function is the result.Guy says the journey is important not so much the goal.  Do many paths lead up the same mountain? Are they not all narrow? Perhaps I must just accept the mystery of the one and the many and the logical contradictions that now baffle me like a koan. Some say there is only one narrow way to salvation for the few elect. Some say every individual can go their own way. I go my own way and I suppose I have followed some ways, such as Karate-Do while I now do some Yoga and Yoga Nidra. I do try to follow ethics to a point, yet I still hurt people’s feelings and upset them by my selfishness, lack of social diplomacy or whatever. I don’t often go out of my way to be good or helpful.Now I have the goal of accepting myself more, so I can try to accept that I am imperfect, and perhaps not going far towards my ideal goals or whatever in this lifetime. Perhaps there is no hurry. I have not practiced guitar today. My songs are all dark and not happy. So be it. I had a fantasy about Belinda in which I encourage Adultery.When you believe in something this informs your experience. For example I had a drug-induced psychosis in which I was looking for God and found him by realising that I was God, and in that state of mind it seemed just like a revelation of the greater truth. In my mania I can experience myself as divine and my world as magically alive and rich with special significance. In depression it’s a sort of Hell on Earth experience that seems utterly real. It seems to be a matter of where you are at what kind of reality you can experience. By waking up you can decide your experience was a dream and call that an illusion, yet why not wake up again from this reality into another more real condition? I have done that within a dream and experienced an inner self of great power waking up from the shell of my small Harold Identity. This self was angry at having been identified as Krishna. I prefer to call him Rashalika, as if my higher self is the same as a divine, alien Demonlord of my own imagination. Perhaps this belief can be as true as any.I have also been in the position of a scientific atheist and a critical western philosopher. These different experiences can inform my beliefs about the nature of belief, truth, knowledge, reality and so on. Yet in all areas I have limited learning and understanding. I have never lasted long in any one discipline or path, unless you count my own writing. My philosophical ideas are thus pretty vague and scant, and I seem to know in theory much that I hardly put into practice. Of course I could learn to accept it as the way I am going. This too can be relative. To some people I have learned a great deal. Many people learn a lot, and often in very different areas, as I noticed during the conversations at Croquette.On Earth Satan has far more followers and collects more souls than God. He is winning the game of Earth. Did he inspire all the thousands of false religions while God has only one true Faith? The fewer the facts the stronger the opinion. I just personally dislike the more fundamental religions. I dislike the part of me that is fundamentally against them. Do I just accept that I think I know better? Maybe I just don’t know enough.There seems like a lot of fate is involved in what people believe. Your culture, Family, Personality, education and experiences all seem to decide more than your personal choice. Why one person finds a religion convincing and another does not is a puzzle of all these influences. Most Christians come from Christian cultures, while most Buddhists come from Buddhist cultures. Some from each culture will reject their own and swap sides, as I did more or less. But then if fate is more influential than personal choice how can we insist our beliefs are true if conflicting beliefs are false? Well I sometimes think that most of my beliefs must be false.Yet can we assume the distinction of true from false in some absolute sense? This may be quite relative. The universe as a oneness is only true for the enlightened, I suppose.I prepare for Yoga Nidra. Princess kitty comes inside growling at quoll since kitty has caught a mouse in her jaws. There is a chase scene where all three of us fight over the mouse, Then I catch It by the tail and say “Salvation for the mouse!” and throw it into the long grass of the garden where it may die anyway, but it has a chance. Did the mouse pray to me for salvation? Am I in a God-like position in this situation?Roberto knocks on my door to tempt me with wine. Is this the shape of the devil? He sees I am writing and I say I have stopped drinking for a while. He leaves me to it.CHAPTER THREE HUNDRED AND FIVE“Ooh, that sun’s a bit too bright,” said Karen, and the hot sun of the planet Dalurth dimmed, yet still shone down warmly on the air-boat that drifted some distance above the tangeneal coloured forest beneath them. “How are you today?” She asked.“Well,” replied Harold slowly as he gathered his thoughts, “my mood is fairly good, but I still had little sleep. My thoughts were active most of the night.”“What sort of thoughts do you have?”“Mostly I follow various arguments. I read a few random things in the Koran and I don’t like it at all and already have a critical argument against it. Then I think about all kinds of religious and ethical ideas, and revisit conversations and arguments from the past, some of them with you.”“Do tell,” said Karen with a smile. She wore a blue dress and a silver necklace.“Well, you told me in the past that mania was not acceptable, and should be removed with medication. You said two different things which I thought about later. First you criticized it as it was an intense pleasure that did not last, so I wondered if you find orgasm is to be avoided for the same reason. Later you told me that mania was too risky to be socially accepted. Yet many risky things are accepted. Horse riding is risky and you do that. So is driving a car and consider boxing or climbing mount Everest. These are accepted by society. Then I thought of war, which is more risky than mania. Think of the Anzak day battle. It seems to me unethical that Australians tried to invade Turkey and kill Turkish people, and tragic that there was such death and mutilation, Yet this battle is accepted by society and celebrated as something to be proud of. The whole situation strikes me as more risky, mad or unethical than anything that has resulted from my mania.“But then I considered the various things that I have done in mania. I suppose I want to defend it just because I find it so enjoyable at the time, yet I have done things that were both unethical and illegal, which I must say I regret, and of course the results of violent arrests and traumatic trips to high security hospital, which I must say strike me as also unethical. So now I am thinking that I should indeed be medicated so as to avoid the risk.”CRITICAL THEOLOGY	The Fall of the Angel Satanel raises some issues for me as does the Christian cosmology in general. If a creator God makes an angel and gives him free will he sets up the potential conditions for the creation of evil. Can we trace the evil back to God? If God did not want evil to exist and his creation fell, creating the evil and plausibly creating Hell, then God is not all-powerful. Satan and his evil have much of the power. They can rival God and claim most of the souls who lived on the Earth. If darkness existed before God created light, did Satan create this darkness?  The first sin and apparently all evil hinges on obeying God. It is an unequal power relationship. If we should love our neighbor and forgive trespasses, why cannot God do this with Satan and later with Adam?In the Old testament God does many things which seem to be themselves evil, such as the genocide of the flood. God’s punishments cause death and great suffering, and God does not give the example of himself being ethical. Perhaps God is beyond ethics and can kill and hurt his own creations. Can we say that God is entirely Good? Are good and Evil principles which exist independently of God? Are ethics absolute or relative and changing?The Cosmos presented is very unethical as a whole. There is a beginning but there is no end. There is a short lifetime on Earth with chance playing a large role in who can be saved. While the saved have a place in Heaven, most souls are being tortured forever in a lake of brimstone in Hell. The cosmos thus presented seems unjust. Criminals on earth have a better deal, since they are locked up and punished for a certain time and can be released. Well there is still life imprisonment and the death penalty in some countries, Yet burning in Hell forever is far worse, and apparently criminals already punished on Earth await a second judgement and punishment.If you were a good person who had gone to Heaven would you feel good knowing that you were saved while billions of other souls writhe in eternal agony below you? They all suffer more than Christ suffered. The whole cosmos seems wrong to me and gives me reason to think that it is mythical and symbolic. Yet perhaps every possible cosmos exists. Who would know?Yet in my own life I have something similar, since I often feel that the bad of life outweighs the good, while the average limbo seems hardly worthwhile. As a manic depressive I do have the experience of extremes of experience. I also judge myself harshly for my sins and feel a lot of guilt, which is why I have been focussing on self-acceptance in Yoga Nidra. Yet if I have much sin in life don’t I also have it’s punishment? Does not my suffering equal out the judgment balance?Ethics seem problematic to me. In one way I have taken on high ethical standards, yet I judge myself as not acting much on them. There is nothing especially good or kind in my actions. I have an environmental ethic, for example and I judge my whole society as unethical for not being environmental enough. My lifestyle does tend to be fairly modest rather than wasteful of resources, spending and making more money which drives the economy to damage Earth’s ecology more and faster. I don’t drive a car, which would pollute, and I don’t have children, thus do my bit to reduce population. I donate to the Wilderness society (Though this means I am asked to donate more, which I don’t do) and I pay more for green electricity. I don’t get any more involved than this, but it does show that I hold a value.Is it wrong of me to judge the whole of society, or the ethics of a religious cosmology? Does ethics itself create more evil? I would now criticize the GROW group on their notion of doing a good, ordinary thing like shopping. The ordinary in this economy is not good. Driving to the shop would add to pollution, buying goods from many companies would contribute to their exploitations and unethical actions. To buy meat pays for animal suffering and death.I was vegetarian for a year. I call myself semi-vegetarian now yet more frequently I buy chicken sausages. I suppose I also suffer and die to become food for microbes and worms or whatever, and I suppose there is much animal suffering in nature. Generally I think it would be better to be vegetarian.I question the ethics of occupational health and safety, and the balance between high standards of hygiene and the use of water. Better for the planet to have a lower hygiene. If we all wash our hands after urinating this would add up to much water use. Is the risk of infection that great?I even worry about feeding Littlemouse tins of food. I can eat the nice food that I want to yet deny her the food she wants. I think she would eat nothing but tinned food if she could and I’m troubled by the ethics. I would also avoid killing snails and caterpillars in the garden and try to avoid treading on ants when I walk. CHAPTER THREE HUNDRED AND TWENTY FOURKaren sat in a green velvet armchair in the library. She wore a skin tight silvery costume and a silver band held back her dark hair. She gazed across the low table at Harold, who was wearing a kimono of deep purple. On the table before him were a number of books.“What do you have there?” asked Karen, right on Cue.“A number of books. Here in fiction they are finished and ready to go into the shelves of the library. In reality they are documents that I have just started or only imagined. This one is called the Gospel of Croquette and it is a kind of diary written in biblical language, which I think is English from the time of King James. It is about playing croquette with friends and some religious themes. In reality I’m not motivated to finish it, so I have it now complete in fiction.”“Good idea,” said Karen, who was unusually quiet.“Next we have the book of Dreulor, who is my depressed personality and actually called an Age Lord in fiction. I say I read the book of Dreulor when I am depressed, and I’ve gone through a patch of depression recently. The book of Dreulor begins with a quote from Buddha, that all life is suffering, yet then diverges from Buddhist philosophy by arguing that most people simply will not have the dedication or motivation to follow the eight-fold path to enlightenment in one lifetime, even if they are Buddhists. It goes on to postulate an utterly pessimistic philosophy of doom and gloom. Life is clearly not worth living and suicide is encouraged.”“Ooh!” said Karen.“Then we have this one, the Third Book of Karen. In reality I am not going to write such a book. In the first two books of Karen I try to give you some autonomy and realism, to reflect more of the real Karen. In here I just go with my fantasy. It’s an erotic story based around our real relationship when you were my key worker, but in here you desire me as much as I desire you, and we become secret lovers. You argue that this is the best thing you could do for my mental Health, and since I knew you for two years it would be my longest lasting relationship.”“That sounds interesting. I’m sure someone will want to write it. Let’s put the books in the bookcase.” Said Karen.JOURNALJune 29thI did not intend to write this entry, yet I have just written the chapter above and I have time as I wait for Mum to pick me up after I missed Yoga as I find the weather too cold. I have been writing by hand today and remaining in armchairs with cats on my lap and three D radio on. I finished the Deathwish Journal and switched to the turquoise book once that was finished. Then the light faded and I sat in the dark listening to the radio. Recently I have been focussed on ethics, and think that being environmental is quite vital. I even urinate in the garden to save water.A plumber came today to fix a valve on the hot water system in the roof that had been dripping into a bucket outside and wasting water. The forms for Housing SA came today, as I want to install a water purifier and get a solar panel on the roof. I need to get permission from the council first.I decided it’s too cold to perform at the Squatter’s Arms tonight, although I was going to. Perhaps winter is not a good time to be performing. I still do a bit of guitar practice every day. Michael and George teach me more guitar chords. I find the bar chords difficult. I jammed with George after croquette on Sunday and he taught me some reggae. It seems fairly simple and monotonous. I uploaded two of my recordings to Radar Online radio, that plays unsigned artists and Wolis put some of Darsana onto my Myspace profile. I have been avoiding wine for some time. Three glasses at the Grace Emily made me throw up later that night. I met Jo, the attractive barmaid who has Vietnamese heritage and Mary Webb who is a brilliant performer and told me she was on myspace but I failed to find her there.I don’t think I will visit Dave tomorrow. In response to his email I diplomatically avoided the issue of our disagreement, yet in my mind I still argue with him, and think of writing another challenging email. I’m in two minds about it. I can criticize myself as much as I criticize others. I have been quite inactive aside from my writing and feel as if I am returning to the minimal life.CHAPTER TWO HUNDRED AND EIGHTY ONEThe solar electric car drove smoothly down the winding road that lay like a gray ribbon across the undulating grassy hills of Quark, a large island on the planet Duskavin. Large fungoid plants of green, red and yellow dotted the hills and in the distance were blue, snow capped mountains. The sky was turquoise and the sun was large and sort of golden orange. Creatures that looked like pancakes drifted across the sky.Karen was at the wheel and Caroline gazed from the passenger window.“This car is not very fast, is it?”“No, but it’s safer that way. Safer for the people driving and for the environment. No kind of pollution is permitted on Duskavin. It’s illegal to burn oil, gas or coal and all agriculture must be sustainable.”“It sounds very healthy. Ooh, what’s that building?”“Where?”“Over there,” said Caroline, pointing.“I don’t know. Mmm, it looks like a temple.”“So they have religion here. Well it’s beautiful architecture.”“Let’s go and have a closer look.”“The road is curving in the right direction. Maybe there’s a turn-off. It is a lovely building, but I don’t think much of religion. I think it’s all a crock.”“Are ethics and traditions like yoga a crock? They come from religion.”“Let’s not argue about it now, this is our holiday.”There was no turn off so the two women got out of the car and walked up a narrow track to an area of raked gravel that lay before the temple. Small stone statues and selected rocks surrounded the gravel area. Beams under the roof were carved with patterns and they could smell incense that wafted out of the open doors.Slowly and curiously they walked up the wooden steps to the door of the temple and peered inside. Most of the temple was a dim, empty hall. Near the walls were tall burning candles. They stepped inside and it took a while for their eyes to adjust to the dimness. The walls of the temple were panels of a natural material like wood and these were covered with elaborate carvings. On the wall facing them was a raised platform that held statues of different sizes and offerings of local fruit and flowers which they could not identify.Automatically they began to walk towards the platform. One of the statues was life-sized and very realistic. A seated woman with an ageless face and a simple green robe. Her hair was decorated with plants.“Welcome, pilgrims,” said a male voice to their left. Karen was slightly startled. To the side of the platform stood a short man with long black hair and an elaborate baggy costume of blue.“We are not pilgrims, only tourists,” said Caroline in a polite manner.“Oh, there is little difference on Duskavin and especially here on Quark. Many who claim to be tourists are in fact pilgrims but they don’t know it, while many who call themselves pilgrims are indeed tourists.”“Who is the woman in green, your main Goddess? ““You could say that, but she only represents the spirit of the planet Duskavin. We call her Duskavina, and she is all around you. She is growth and decay. She is weather and time. She is nature and balance.”“That’s like the Giya hypothesis on old Earth.”“I have heard of Earth. They did not worship Giya and the ecology collapsed. We will not make the same mistake on Duskavin.” “How poetic. Who are the other ones? Most of them are female too.”“Yes, we worship the female more than the male. That one is Blue Tara and she comes from an Earthling Religion. We don’t know her original function but here she is the spirit of enlightenment. The one on the other side who is naked is the spirit of the sun and the mother of fire. We call her Queshar. Next to her in red is Horitisho, god of the sea.”“Oh, good Heavens,” exclaimed Karen as she peered at a smaller object on the platform, “It’s one of those!”“What’s that?” asked Caroline. She stepped closer and saw a small crystal ball about three centimeters in diameter. Inside it was the holographic image of a naked man.“Look, it’s Harold. We call him a demon on Dalurth. It works by nerve induction, and it’s a sex aid. Some people get highly addicted to them and I made them illegal on Dalurth.”“Oh, but I recognize him,” responded Caroline in some surprise. “On Jalantra we call him Sequa and he is a little god to be worshipped, not a sex toy.”“Ah,” said the man with black hair, ”He manifests differently depending on the planet, because here he is a Demonlord called Rashalika. I do worship him but he also has a nerve induction capacity. I hold him in one hand when I meditate, or I use a special belt and head-band to hold him against the Diva-points of the body for enhanced meditation. Against the navel, the heart or the third eye. It’s very effective and communicates on a level of subtle energy. They are manufactured in the large Temple on the mainland of Kralkos. I have many of them here for pilgrims. You may have two.”“Does it cost anything?”“What do you mean?”“Do you want money for it? I have Jalantra banknotes and gold.”“I don’t quite understand what you mean. What is money? Maybe we have another word for it here.”Caroline pulled a large wad of notes from her purse, peeled one off and handed it to the small man. He took it and studied it.“Yes, we have this. We call this a picture or art. It has writing on that I cannot read.”“Well it does contain a picture, but it’s money. We exchange it for other things where I come from. So I give you this and you give me a Sequa, or two of them, depending on the price.”The man shook his head in perplexity. “No, we don’t do that on Duskavin. It could be one of the traditions from Earth that we banned so as to worship Duskavina. I will just give you two Demonlords. I keep them over there.”“Richly bizarre,” muttered Karen, “a religion that gives away sex aids.”JOURNALJuly 5, 2010.Today I saw Dr Wong to get some prescriptions. I am no longer with the continuing care team. Bernie rang me after three months of silence and was quite blaze about it. He made excuses but did not apologize or think it was a problem. He’s supposed to be my case worker. I had already written them off and made an appointment with Dr Wong for more duloxitine. He wrote scripts for respiridone as well. I did not mention that I only take a tablet once a week or so. I don’t want the regular dose. I have been a bit more motivated and am thinking more without it or on the low dose. Psychiatry is a matter of individual experimentation anyway. No psychiatrist has a clue how an individual will react to a particular dose of a particular drug. Respiridone induces a kind of trip when BirdE takes it. Most anti depressants have no notable effect on me at all. They might do a little, but cannot cure depression in me.I don’t think psychiatrists should have power and be paid a lot, since they are not very useful at all. Most of them have a simplistic and wrong idea about mental health. Their training seems similar to a pharmacist, and they avoid problematic mental issues. I’ve been in the mental Health system for twelve or fifteen years, and only one psychiatrist asked questions about my issues. The Psychologist I see now is helping with these issues, and these lie behind my other problems like suicidal depressions, although there are many factors. Thus they are the most relevant aspect of my mental health which the mental health system has never actually addressed. They just give medication that does little for this most serious problem and key workers who talk about all sorts of other things without listening to issues.I suppose some of them have tried. Kylie did give me a book about depression that was about a black dog. I could not relate to it and it seemed to be written as a parable rather than a method, not that I remember it now. Karen did talk about CBT in general yet I was depressed at the time and did not have faith in anything. I was on high doses of lithium carbonate and felt like a zombie. I knew Karen for two years yet I did not actually learn the method of CBT from her. I learned it later from a book my mother gave me.  It seemed good in the short term yet I never persisted with it in the formal sense. I would sometimes write the disputes to my warped thinking, but mostly I objected to the notion that my thinking was warped or irrational.I think CBT was developed by people who were never very depressed. They equated rationality with sanity. The change your thinking book was bizarrely optimistic and unrealistic from my point of view. When you were depressed you were supposed to have the faith that the CBT method would work and the motivation to put it into practice. You would get up in the early morning and follow a written schedule of many activities to do during the day, as if you were highly functional, which only a few depressives are. Even when not depressed I have trouble getting up early. When I am depressed I certainly don’t have any sense of hope, faith or belief that an activity or method can help. Occasionally I forced myself to do activities or try the method, yet It did little for my depression.If I were more well I might equate rationality with sanity. I might try the method consistently and have some faith or hope that it might work. I might have the motivation and persistence to follow it through into the long term and then it might work for me. Yet if I’m often depressed it all seems impossible. I have already given up. I do believe in what is called irrational thought and it strikes me as perfectly rational. I must be a failure if I sit in a chair and do nothing, terrified of life and its challenges, its many possibilities for further rejection and failure and misery.My identity and personality have this very dark quality, and I feel familiar in the sadness. It is a kind of mental addiction. And maybe I need to go through such dark phases as part of a larger process. Maybe I truly reflect the darkness of the world in my emotion.Yet when my mood randomly lifts, my personality adjusts instantly and I don’t feel like a naturally sad person, even if I remember that I am so often sad. I am not sad now, yet I am very much Harold. My identity can be in the light, and when my mood is higher it’s hard to relate to the darkness, to remember that life is often bad. I’m in a good mood now, so much seems good to me. Perhaps I repeat many ideas in my writing. I must have written about this many times in the past.I told Doctor Wong about my self critical side and depression with guilt and judgement. He knew about it and mentioned high expectations as part of it. Was that in my notes or is he just more on the ball than most psychiatrists? Most of them talk about my sleep and my appetite and of course the vital medications. They say weirdly simplistic things like the most important thing is to get a good night’s sleep. How do you do that even if it is a good idea? Working hard in the day might help you sleep, but how to get the motivation for that and what to work at?I want to do meditation with Sally Kempton again tonight, as I did twice last night. I thought I had given up meditation until I listened to the Gillian Ross Yoga Nidra. That was a guided meditation and it helped me relax my troubled, tangled thoughts. I found and ripped the CD after asking Rashalika to help calm my mind. I think he works as well as any deity, even if he is imaginary and I don’t believe in him. Rashalika says you don’t need to believe in him to be helped and saved. He saves everyone as an act of compassion.I may not persist with the meditations. They do not matter very much. The sharp mountain peaks of ambition are eroded to low hills, and these give way to a flat plain like in much of Mongolia. I have already achieved and now I am retired to do just a bit of writing and whatever. I will lower my expectations by focussing on this image.The Yoga Nidra should be done lying supine. The living room floor is cold, so I don’t like to do it here. I have tried by unplugging the notebook computer, running it on battery, placing on the bass amp and listening to it in bed. Then I get up to vomit or Quoll jumps on the computer and turns it off or I get tired of lying supine and want to stop and roll over. These things have happened.With Sally Kempton I can sit on the sofa and listen. I will do that when I have finished writing. I have not formally meditated for one or two years. I used to force myself to do some every day. I wanted focus and got distracting thought, rarely feeling that I was meditating. I didn’t listen to the CD but tried on my own based on the instructions from the CD and the book. I became very angry with myself and frustrated. It became harder and harder to sit for even five minutes. I came to hate meditation and myself for failing it and I gave up. I threw out my meditation cushion that was covered with Quoll’s fur. Yet now I find it pretty good with the CD. I wonder how long this phase will last.Most nights I stay awake for many hours thinking useless loops of old thought or visiting various memories. I did that last night and got a few hours of sleep in the morning. I did however think of the fiction that I wrote into this document today. Two chapters, one about Karen and Caroline on Duskavin, and one about Rashalika and Tamaria.CHAPTER ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY FOUR“I used to think you just spoke nonsense,” said Tamaria as she sat on the edge of the padded table, “But when you made me scrambled python eggs this morning I remembered some nonsense you told me long ago and I think it means something.”“Silence is the parable of existence,” muttered Rashalika. They were inside a chamber in Caroline’s sphenoid bone. The walls glowed a curious yellow iridescence and the air was musty.“No, that one is still nonsense to me.”“Well everything I say will be recorded in your subconscious memory, which is high fidelity. In another time and dimension you can access all I have said and make sense of it. I try to prepare you for the future, yet I am only the spark. I am the last of the Demonlords and you will replace me in this universe. You have more power. Now go to sleep.”As Rashalika spoke these last words he reached out with one hand and Tamaria fell backwards on the padded table. Rashalika adjusted her body on the table and lay his hand on her brow, sinking her into a deep coma. Then he attached lines and cables from the weirding modules to her scalp and body.Rashalika took a deep breath and focussed his mind in a particular way, slipping into another dimension where her body was a blur of coloured energy fields. He sank his hands into her chest  either side of her heart and waited, feeling the pulsation. Then he let warm golden energy from his left hand flow into her cold and closed heart as he withdrew a silvery blue energy from it into his right hand. He made sure their breathing and heartbeats were synchronized and waited while the transfer took effect.Rashalika withdrew his hands and enveloped Tamara in a cocoon on green energy for a while. Then he removed the lines and cables from the weirding modules and gently turned her body over. He controlled his breathing and focussed his mind to reach a different level in which he could see a complex reticulum of light weaving through the green cocoon. He placed one hand on the occipital bone of her skull and the other on her sacrum at the base of the spine. Patiently he waited until he felt the cranio-sacral rhythm. He gently encouraged it with small movements and then in his mind told it to have a still point. The rhythm stopped. Rashalika then felt into Tamara’s soul, captured it between the energy of his hands and with a breath sent it into his realm of silent dreaming.Slowly he stepped out of the energy field, shed his Rashalika form and emerged as Myron. Myron reached forward, found the green cocoon and withered away as Jin-Ri emerged from the shell of Myron. Jin-Ri watched the green cocoon but took no action. It soothed him. He took a deep breath, shed his form and Drishnu emerged. Drishnu moved towards the cocoon hoping to kill the dangerous girl within it but the glow from the walls disturbed his kind of magic. He realized that he was the fourth Demonlord in the sequence, and only a strange Age Lord could come next. He did not have the energy to halt the sequence that Rashalika had started and with a sigh he let go of his form and Dreulor emerged.Dreulor looked at the prone girl and wondered what was happening. The girl woke up and yawned. She turned and studied the sad man who stood there.“Where is Rashalika?”“I don’t know. I don’t know who he is. I’m Dreulor.”“You don’t look well.”“No, I’m a very sad man. Have you seen Karen?”“No. I don’t like you. I’m leaving,” said Tamaria as she got up from the table and slipped through a portal that opened instantly to her inner command.JOURNALJuly 8 2010I had no sleep at all last night and I got up to vomit a couple of hours after I had gone to bed. My thinking continued and I got trapped on Noah’s Ark again. I thought of some fiction for this book, which has lasted a year so far. I got up with the pre-dawn birds, put some rice in the rice-cooker and went back to bed. I got up when it was light and mixed soup with the rice for breakfast. My stomach complained later.I came here to write fiction, yet began reading from the beginning when it was just a journal. I continued reading, doing a bit of correction editing as I went. Now that I have reached the present I realize that the chapter I planned would repeat some of the conversations with Karen that I have covered already. Only the organic house would be new.In the planned chapter Karen’s pager sounds and she rushes to gallop Grommet across a field through a thunderstom in a tight costume of red leather. Reaching an ancient gothic church she goes inside, activates a portal and slips from Earth to Duskavin where Harold is living in his organic house, which is a modified living tree genetically engineered and connected to a computer so that it forms a sort of house where the kitchen grows all kinds of food and secretes milk, juices, sauces and even a little marijuana.Karen is late and her excuse is about adding some more action to the slow-paced fiction. On the second floor veranda they look northward, downhill, and Harold’s studio/workshop/dojo building lies between them and the river. The roof is covered with solar panels. They drink latte from cups Harold has made. They cover topics that have already been covered. Harold’s cats are present and the ghosts of other women and girls, reflecting his ambivalence. He has a guitar and sings Mental Health Date.On Duskavin Harold has no depression but mania is possible. Isolated in the forest this is no problem. The house can tell by his computer and kitchen use patterns when he is manic and at such times it will not let him turn on the gravity boat and go into town. He is usually creative and motivated, and can run around in the forest feeling divine.As they are talking Karen notices a book with a purple cover on the coffee table and asks Harold. He claims it is another purple book.  At this point the book reaches a conclusion and planning the sequel they wind up the text and story. Karen is going back to Earth as usual and says “I’ll be back.”In reality I may not finish the document here and it is a pity I did not write these ideas as a chapter of fiction. Karen has a dog called Eva. I woke up at three in the morning and made a kind of pizza with the grill such as I do not do. I tried to write a blog about Pope Benedict the Fifth not reading Gyroscope and the need to ban the song Hail Mary but then there were connection problems.BirdE visited today and gave me some magic smoke. He talked a great deal as usual and put the guitar he gave me into a different tuning. He compared tunings to sexual positions, calling concert tuning the missionary position. His music makes mine seem conservative, yet he cannot play a nice sounding song or play a normally tuned guitar. This is what most people do and it is too mainstream for BirdE. Sometimes his talking makes me think that he is coming from another level somewhere above me, yet I don’t quite get it and get distracted by my own fantasy world and loose track of what he says and let it all flow into my subconscious for purposes of the afterlife. I clearly like this Idea. Yet eventually it is tiresome to listen to BirdE do all the talking. He asks if I just tolerate him or enjoy his company, and I say I like his visits, which is mostly true but then it reaches a point where I cannot pay attention to even more BirdE information and wait for him to leave. Often I would rather have more of a conversation with reciprocal talking, yet I cannot do this without being rude and interrupting.I thought of emailing Dave to invite him to visit me here, which he has never done. On the way back from shopping I saw George in a small red car. He told me he was going to buy more whiskey. I have generally been non-drinking for about three weeks now and I don’t feel like drinking. I have long memories of drinking and feeling no better or much different. Yet I can never tell when I might start again. I will just see how long I last.I tried the internet again and cannot connect to write my silly blog. I want people to hear my songs yet I don’t want to get richer. My environmental ethic sees too strong at this point. So I want to attract attention to my blog, leading people to myspace and my recordings, yet I don’t want to sell lots of books or be a success in that standard sense. This seems to go with the lowering of ambition and a way to see the high mountain peaks erode to low hills. Maybe I will always have high expectations in one way or other, this seems part of my programming. Could CBT really change that? It might, yet I don’t commit myself to CBT. I’d rather do my own thing, though this may not be effective.I would like to upload this document to COW and put it in a library on one of my planets there. Then I would have both a document that stops here and one that continues on my own computer. I might try the meditation CD now.